
CONFIDENTIALITY CLAUSE:  All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment
Position Applied For:
Export Admin
Candidate Name:
Gabrielle Van Der Merwe
MPC Consultant Name:
Colleen Stevenson
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(021) 552 8048
Date Referred:
3 October 2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Van Der Merwe
First Names :
Gabrielle
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English and Afrikaans
EE/AA Status :
White Female
Availability :
Calendar month
Current Salary :
R 27 000 per month
Expected Salary :
R 32 000 per month (no medical aid needed)

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Jotun Paints South Africa Pty Ltd
Export Administrator
Oct 2011 - date
Oceana Brands Ltd
Export Controller
Apr 2010 – Aug 2011
Brolaz South Africa Pty Ltd
Project Engineering Construction
Feb 2004 – Aug 2011
Candidate Summary
To provide professional, quality and confidential service to my employer by creating a mutually rewarding relationship, built on a foundation of trust. Worked in 2 x FMCG companies prior to my Export days - Elida Ponds and Cape Oil Products. Has extensive experience in export and has a very good understanding of the intricacies and the dynamics of the workings and the legalities.

Academic History
Qualification :
O Levels
Date Completed :
1989
Institution :
Zimbabwe

Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office


Additional Training and Skills
1992: Executive Personal Assistant, Diploma
2015:  Getting started with Powerpoint 2010
2015:  Jotun Corporate Responsibility
2015:  Basic Management training
2015:  HSE Induction for Visitors
2015:  Dangerous Goods
2015:  IMDG Refresher course
2014:  The Basics of Delegation
2014:  The yearly POD talk
2014:  Taking on a  Management Role
2014:  Safe Storage of Goods
2014:  Paint School Introduction
2014:  SA VAT Act & Exporting
2013:  Export Essentials Master Class
2013:  IMDG Maritime Dangerous Goods Course
2013:  Matrix / IFS End User training
2012:  INCOTERMS ® 2010
2011:  Sales force training 1
2011:  Essentials of Electrnoic Communication
2011:  What are paint & powder coatings?
2011:  Basic Finance in Jotun
2011:  Introduction to Notes 8 & Work smarter with Notes 8
2011:  Competition Compliance Training
2010:  An overview of Incoterms 2010 ®
2009:  SAD 500;  HS Tariff Codes;  Letters of Credit
2008:  Incoterms 2000
2007 :  Emotional Intelligence – A Healthy Mental Attitude
2006 : Advanced Export Logistics
2002 : Understanding & Completing Export Documentation
1996 : Fire Team Training Course
1995: MS Word (Advanced);  MS Word In-depth skill building seminar; MS Excel (Intermediate);  MS Powerpoint
1994 : IPM Personnel Secretaries & Assistance Course;  The Role of the Receptionist
1993 : Windows & CCMail Workshop
1992 : Elementary Model’s Finishing School Course


Gabrielle Van Der Merwe
Resumé of Career to Date
Company Name :
Jotun Paints South Africa Pty Ltd
Type of Industry :
Export
Period of Employment :
October 2011 - date
Position :
Export Department
Duties :


Manage team performance in accordance with assigned roles and responsibilities (2 x subordinates). Ensure business process continuity.  Delegate and monitor responsibilities.  Maintain performance efficiency. 
Manage the export process of orders through ensuring correct and accurate planning, organising, co-ordination and control of freight from quotation to final clearance at point of delivery.  Ensure that enquiries and requests are handled timeously.
Oversee financial and administrative compliance in accordance with legislation and company protocols.  Maintain traceability of export records and transactions for Jotun, SARS, UN Regulations and Reserve Bank. 
Keep updated with legislation and/or political influences affecting daily operations.
Accountability for risk management. Identify and reduce risk exposure.  Develop and maintain business intelligence relative to Export Department
Administrative & consultative support to Export Sales Reps, Distributors and Operations  through knowledge of export models, distributors, inter-company protocols, shipping procedures, customer relations and statutory legislation, 
Empower and support senior management in strategic export-related decisions.  Inter-divisional liaison and information distribution. Contribute to meeting forums.
Assess and address deliverables in management of Key accounts and process flows.  Propose alternatives where necessary. 
Provide problem-solving assistance on difficult shipments and export claims.  Trouble-shoot and provide solutions for issues of a moderate to complex scope, escalating where necessary.
Initiate and drive ongoing customer service improvements through development and implementation of departmental policies, procedures and process flows.
Accountability to evaluate and monitor freight costs. Ensure optimised transport options are secured.  Analyse impact of proposed logistics changes eg. Financial and lead time implications affected by routing, mode of transport, product volumes, transporters etc.
Negotiate rates and service delivery with freight agents and hazardous packers where required, manage / delegate responsibility for tracking exported stock located outside the South African border, but still owned by Jotun Paints South Africa (Pty) Ltd.
Customer visits (travel where required)
 Where necessary, update company information / memberships / subscriptions to export related entities.
Countries exported to: Angola, Botswana, Congo, DRC, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, and Zambia.
Reason for Leaving :
Open to new challenges that may present themselves

Date – date: Fill in career gap here

Company Name :
 Oceana Brands Ltd
Type of Industry :
Export
Period of Employment :
April 2010 – August 2011
Position :
Export Controller
Duties :


Upline reporting to Sales Manager for the export of Fishmeal across the globe.
Checking and vetting incoming L/C's (Letters of Credit) & contract documents, requesting amendments & resolving potential hiccups, prior to starting with loading.  
Providing confirmation of booking arrangements to clients & scheduling loading of product at various plants, in accordance with the batch analyses provided against the client’s order(s).
Procuring container, seafreight & haulage services to co-ordinate loading arrangements with various shipping lines and transporters (up to 40 x 40’ containers per order, moving approx. 2000 tons of product per week).  
Arranging storage of packed containers (at SACD), where required, & delivery into port when vessel stacks open.
Arranging Fumigation, SGS Inspections & State Vet participation for inspection and certification of consignments in accordance with requirements of the order and/or L/C.
Collating and verifying documentation received from all parties to ensure compliance with L/C and/or sales contract.
Nurturing relations professionally with overseas customers, local suppliers & colleagues within the organization; liaising with parties on all levels (from loading teams to Director Level). 
Providing continuous communication & information updates to relevant parties regarding the tracking & tracing of cargo end route.
Investigating queries & claims to attain speedy resolution & customer satisfaction.
Managing multiple parties to facilitate smooth, efficient delivery of cargo (i.e. Clients, factory supervisors, management, hauliers, shipping lines, fumigators, SGS inspectors and State Vet).
Negotiating Freight Rates and free detention in foreign ports with various shipping lines.
Maintaining & updating extensive Excel reports detailing consignment information from order stage through to proof of delivery (POD) & payments received.
Maintaining administration protocols to ensure full traceability of cargo from point of loading, through departure to arrival at port of discharge, including adherence to all related statutory requirements.
Ensuring a high level of accuracy & attention to detail is maintained in document preparation to eliminate the risk of payment delays.
Compiling Export Procedure Guides by collating information, documents and templates for shipments to new destinations, for departmental use.
General administration, including processing invoices, obtaining proof of payments (received from clients and payments made to suppliers), proof of deliveries, DHL courier tracking, drafting correspondence & extensive e-mail communication, filing, etc.)
Documentation handled: Proforma Invoices, Client’s import permits (arranging translation services when required), Commercial Invoices, Packing Lists, Shipping Instructions, SAD500’s, Cargo Dues, SGS Inspection Certificates, Fumigation Certificates, Letters of Conformity, L/C’s, Bills of Lading, Animal & Public Health Certificates from Dept. of Agriculture (Phytosanitary certification), TREM Cards, HAZ & Non-Haz Certificates, Certificates of Origin, Manufacturer’s Declarations, Requisitions, Freight Invoices.
Countries exported to: Australia, China, Turkey, New Caledonia, Nigeria, and Egypt.
Reason for Leaving :
Contract ended

Date – date: Fill in career gap here

Company Name :
Brolaz South Africa Pty Ltd
Type of Industry :
Engineering
Period of Employment :
February 2004 – January 2010
Position :
Shipping Controller Logistics
Duties :


Upline reporting to Shipping Manager for import, export and triangle shipments across the globe.
Arranging transport, co-ordinating bookings, requisitions, typing, filing & administration of all shipping aspects for Air, Sea & Roadfreight.
Obtaining quotations for shipping & conducting cost-comparisons.
Preparation of Service Level Agreements (SLA’s) for project shipping rollouts.
Liaison with Project Managers, Accounts, Clients, Clearing Agents and Inspection Agencies involved in the process flow.
Assessing client import permits to ensure documentation provided & cargo shipped remains within the protols of the importing country.
Checking purchase contracts set up by procurement dept. for import orders into RSA, confirming trade terms & conditions of purchase.  Thereafter, tracking movement of incoming goods & liaising with freight forwarder to obtain relevant permits & statutory documentation for imports coming in to South Africa.  Also ensuring pre-clearance of goods to ensure minimal delays when goods arrived in-country.
Monitoring & working within project timelines for cargo delivery to be carried out timeously, checking & adhering to import permit requirements/restrictions, overseeing adequate packaging of cargo with the warehouse team to ensure minimal damage to equipment that would be man-handled in other African ports/cargo storage points.
Co-ordinating foreign-to-foreign (triangle) shipments, temporary exports, HAZ freight and return/repair swap-outs.
Ensuring full traceability of cargo from departure to arrival, including all related statutory requirements.
Providing all parties with continuous flow of information regarding shipment status from start of contract until point of delivery.
Extensive problem-solving in the shortest possible turn-around time to minimize delays and costs.
Ensuring that shipping expenditure remains within budgets forecast – negotiate better rates & services where applicable.
Weekly & Monthly Reporting for Management in Excel & MS Word Format.  Compiling ad hoc presentations & feedback reports on claims & extensive delays encountered.
Generating Requisitions & Purchase Orders for services received from suppliers & following through with Finance Dept. for proof of payment.
Training new staff in the shipping division on company procedures & customers.
Compiling Export Procedure Guides by collating information, documents and templates for shipments to new destinations, for use by Management in sales planning & by colleagues learning the ropes.
Documentation handled: Shipping Instructions, Proforma Invoices, Client’s import permits (IDF, Form M etc.), F178’s, Commercial Invoices, Packing Lists, Inspection Certificates, Fumigation Certificates, Letters of Conformity, L/C’s, Airway Bills, Bills of Lading, Road Manifests, TREM Cards, HAZ Certificates, Certificates of Origin, Requisitions, Freight Invoices.
Countries Exported to: Angola, Botswana, Kenya, Mozambique, Namibia, and Nigeria.
Divisional Secretary: Logistics (02/2004 – 09/2006)
Upline reporting to Divisional Manager: Logistics
Collecting, collating, reporting, scanning and distribution of information
Generating own correspondence & keeping all relevant parties in copy
Organising Meetings & relevant distribution of Agenda information required, followed up by distributing completed Minutes of Meetings
Compiling procedures, reports, forms & office documentation (including divisional Performance Appraisals, schedules, flowcharts, spreadsheets, graphs etc)
Processing of paperwork for Steel Export reimbursements
Documentation relative to Steel Fabrication requests (Bolt Lists for Towers, QA Requests, Purchase Order requests, etc)
Interpreting and compiling information from Engineering Drawings
Ad-hoc administrative support to Shipping Division and Steel Fabrication Division, including preparation of shipping documentation
Implementation and maintenance of new filing systems for Logistics and Production divisions
Liaison with personnel at all levels
Maintaining divisional absenteeism records, diary management & providing ad hoc secretarial assistance where required (eg. Arranging catering for meetings, helping with report/presentation formatting etc).
Computer Packages:  MS Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Outlook, Buildsmart (in-house package)
Reason for Leaving :
Husband was transferred to Cape Town

Date – date: Fill in career gap here




Company Name :
ExactoCraft Pty Ltd
Type of Industry :
Manufacturing / Export
Period of Employment :
February 2001 – September 2002
Position :
Sales & Marketing Secretary
Duties :


Upline reporting to Technical Sales Director and National Sales Manager.
Exports :
Creating & maintaining filing system
Order Acknowledgements
Costings & route planning
Pro-forma Invoices, Commercial documents, F178’s, Collection Schedules to Bank
Resolving Customer queries
Shipping samples
Imports :
Sourcing suppliers
Obtaining samples and quotations
Handling price queries & shipping terms
Liaising with Clearing agent to ensure speedy release & delivery of cargo
Compiling Order Requisitions
Creating and maintaining filing system.
National Sales :
Creating and maintaining filing system
General correspondence
Quotations and Customer queries (multi-level pricing)
Conformance Certificates (for Clients supplying products to the state).
Direct Marketing.
General :
Gathering and manipulating of information for various Sales reports including Annual Sales Budget, Monthly Actual Sales, Comparative graphs month by month, Export payments due, Monthly shipments despatched, Sales Forecast, Sales Trip reports, Annual Strategy Reports
Agendas, Minutes and Action Plans
Handling switchboard overflow
Providing ad hoc assistance to Financial Manager
Stationery
Compiling product history schedules.

Reason for Leaving :
Whilst on maternity leave , was approached by Moors & STam (ex colleagues) who offered better prospects


Company Name :
CS System Solutions
Type of Industry :
I.T
Period of Employment :
December 1999 – January 2001
Position :
Administrative Assistant
Duties :


Secretarial and administrative support to W/Cape Team (Director & 9 personnel).
General office support eg. Typing, faxing, filing, stationery & consumable supplies etc.
Typing & Collating User Guide documentation.
Handling and organising events for Regional Social Fund.
Compiling SCADA graphics & tagging on InTouch 7.1 and Adroit 4.1. (Main function from March 2000).
Reason for Leaving :
Resigned, Secretarial duties gave way to SCADA software development and after giving it sometime, decided it was not a field in which I wanted to pursue my career.

Date – date: Fill in career gap here

Company Name :
Cozens Recruitment Services
Type of Industry :
Recruitment
Period of Employment :
January 1999 – December 1999
Position :
Branch Secretary
Duties :


Secretarial and administrative support to W/Cape Area Manager & 7 Consultants.
Implemented and maintained computerised candidate database.
Costed & placement of advertisements.
Typing of CV’s, References and monthly Management Reports.
Collating statistical information for Head Office.
Liaising with candidates.
Reason for Leaving 
Reason for Leaving :
Did not find the position fulfilling enough and decided to pursue alternative options.  Accepted an offer from CS System Solutions

Date – date: Fill in career gap here




Company Name :
Clothing Ind. Bargaining Council
Type of Industry :
Clothing Industry
Period of Employment :
May 1995 – January 1999
Position :
Personal Assistant
Duties :


Secretarial & administrative support to Deputy Secretary/Chairman of National Bargaining Forum
Extensive cross-pollination of documentation for Council, Provident Fund and Health Care Fund
Admin support to Committee Services Department and Council Reps
Co-ordinating arrangements for National Bargaining Forum meetings eg. Venue, catering, contacting participants
Agendas, Minutes and Verbatim of meetings
Diary management, conference and travel arrangements
Monthly industry statistics 
Annual National Comparative Wage Schedules
Liaison with Department of Labour (Registrar, Deputy Registrar & Inspectors)
Processing amendments and additions for Govt. Gazette publications
Compiling Provident Fund schedules
Compiling Annual Report
Fire Marshall
Maintaining extremely high level of confidentiality as decisions and negotiations done at this level affected workers across the clothing industry.
Reason for Leaving :
To gain further experience and develop my career.

Date – date: Fill in career gap here














Company Name :
Cape Oil Products (Tiger Foods)
Type of Industry :
FMCG
Period of Employment :
February 1994 – May 1995
Position :
Personal Assistant
Duties :


Secretarial & administrative support to MD & Senior Management
Minutes of Management / Trade Union Meetings.
Diary Management & Travel Arrangements (Local and International).
Conference co-ordination. 
Staff Sales Orders.
Reason for Leaving :
To gain further experience and develop my career.

Date – date: Fill in career gap here

Company Name :
Elida Ponds (Unilever)
Type of Industry :
Manufacturing
Period of Employment :
December 1992 – December 1993
Position :
Receptionist
Duties :


General Reception duties and secretarial support to HR Department and Factory Manager.
Controlling computerised Security Access System.
Reason for Leaving :
Married, relocated to Cape Town












MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2
	Candidate Name 	|	Gabrielle Van Der Merwe XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Colleen Stevenson (021) 552 8048





