
“All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment”
Position Applied For:
 FORMTEXT Enter Position Here
Candidate Name:
Emma Cole
MPC Consultant Name:
Laura Knight
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(031) 562 8001 
Date Referred:
20/09/2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Cole
First Names :
Emma 
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English 
EE/AA Status :
None / White Female
Availability :
Immediate

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Self-Employed
Freelance Accountant
Jan 2016 to Present
Huntsworth Plc Group, Tonic life Communications, London
Financial Manager/Financial Controller
May 2014 to April 2015
Huntsworth Plc Group, London, United Kingdom
Business Analyst and Financial Modeller
September 2012 to April 2014
Anglo American, London
Supply Chain, Category Specialist
November 2010 to August 2012
Anglo American, Johannesburg
Supply Chain, Performance and Risk Specialist
July 2009 to October 2010
Deloitte & Touche, Johannesburg
Article Clerk

Jan 2006 to Dec 2008	



Academic History
Qualified as a (CA) SA in 2008- SAICA

Qualification :
Honours in Accounting
Date Completed :
2005
Institution :
University of Johannesburg


Qualification :
Bachelor of Commerce in Accounting
Achieved distinctions for Accounting, Financial Management, Taxation, Auditing, Commercial Law, Statistics and Economics]
Date Completed :
2004
Institution :
Rand Afrikaans University


Qualification :
Matric with Distinctions in: Mathematics, Accountancy, Science and Biology
Date Completed :
2001
Institution :
Krugersdorp High School
 

Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint & Outlook) & Internet
Excellent operational use of TM1.
Good level of operational use of Maconomy and Cognos.
Good level of touch typing.


Additional Training and Skills
Completed articles December 2008 at Deloitte – first time pass

ACHIEVEMENTS AT SCHOOL:
Full colours Award for Leadership - Krugersdorp High School (2001)
Head Girl Krugersdorp High School (2001)




































Emma Cole
Resumé of Career to Date

Company Name :
Self-Employed
Type of Industry :
Financial Services
Period of Employment :
January 2016 to Present
Position :
Freelance Accountant
Duties :


Performed internal audit procedures and preparation of financial statements in accordance to IFRS 
Provided management with process and policy recommendations
Investigated European listing requirements for best investor and taxation treaties within Africa
Researched funding options such as European long term investment fund
Drafted governmental power purchase agreements, analysing current demand and preparing suitable take or pay agreements
Reason for Leaving :
Part- time work. To enter corporate



Company Name :
Huntsworth Plc Group, Tonic Life Communications, London
Type of Industry :
Leading agency in life science communications and public relations.
Period of Employment :
May 2014 to April 2015
Position :
Financial Manager/ Financial Controller
Duties :


Reporting to the managing director for Tonic.
Provide financial support by ensuring monthly targets were achieved, correct staffing levels were maintained and financial results were reported timeously.   
Provide financial advice regarding strategic decisions, attend Leadership and Director Meetings and present the financial result to the company at quarterly meetings.

Duties:
Providing financial, commercial and strategic support to the business
Producing monthly management accounts, variance analysis and forecasts
Setting and tracking of budgets and providing explanation for variances to the managing director and Huntsworth Health CFO.
Involved in business planning, profit and loss, balance sheet and working capital planning.
Overseeing and improving internal financial controls.
Developing, managing and motivating a team of finance professionals.
Reason for Leaving :
To return to SA



Company Name :
Huntsworth Plc Group, Tonic Life Communications, London
Type of Industry :
Leading agency in life-science communications and public relations
Period of Employment :
September 2012 to April 2014
Position :
Business Analyst & Financial Modeller
Duties :


Detailed business modelling, analysis and interpretation of financial data to support the business operations and forward planning analysis including P&L and KPIs.
Interpretation and communication of financial performance at both consolidated and subsidiary level.
Assistance with half year and full year results presentations including analysis of trends and preparation of detailed back up analysis.
Scenario modelling for the annual Group Budget.
Project support to subsidiaries at all levels.
Development of new financial analysis and insights report, highlighting current and forecasted financial risk and cyclical trends.
Performance of internal audit activities and agreed upon procedures.
Reason for Leaving :
Promotion



Company Name :
Anglo American
Type of Industry :
Mining
Period of Employment :
July 2009 to August 2012
Position :
Supply Chain, Category Specialist
Supply Chain, Performance & Risk Specialist
Duties :


Supply Chain, Category Specialist, London
(November 2010 – August 2012)
Responsible for the account management, implementation and negotiation of professional service contracts for the Anglo group.
Main responsibilities involved:
Responsible for design of electronic tenders, process management, tender evaluation for price and proposed services, supplier evaluation, negotiation, final contracting and contract implementation across all Regions.
Calculating, analysing and tracking of negotiated savings. This required an analysis of market inflation and trends in pricing adjustments.
Monitor compliance to the Master Services Agreements.
Negotiated annual price increases and discount models.

In addition to her general responsibilities she was involved in the following projects, but not limited to:
Designed the Management Advisory System that improved the efficiency and effectiveness of the management of contracts, contract amendments and purchase orders.
Developed an invoice tracking functionality within the system to assist in tracking spend and the calculation of the delivered benefits.
Supply Chain, Performance & Risk Specialist, JHB
(July 2009 – October 2010)
As a Performance and Risk Specialist she provided support to Senior Management, Central and Regional Teams, and the Supply Chain Leadership Team, which included bespoke report development, highlighted risks and provided ad hoc analysis for decision making.

In addition her responsibilities included:  
Performed data analysis to identify trends and risks in current and future spend to assist Management in decision making and optimisation of negotiated benefits.
Facilitated and engaged in performance reporting and target setting.
Assisted in the implementation, including training, and continuous improvement of the new reporting system and the generation of automated reports.
Built positive relationships with internal stakeholders across all levels and with diverse qualifications across multiple Regions.
Ensured compliance with and provide guidance on Supply Chain Policies, Procedures and Governance.
Reason for Leaving :
Secondment role, found an opportunity in the UK.











Company Name :
Deloitte & Touche, Johannesburg, South Africa
Type of Industry :
Accounting Firm
Period of Employment :
January 2006 – December 2008	
Position :
Article Clerk 
Duties :


Clients included, but not limited to:
Bidvest, McCarthy Group, McCarthy Automotive Distributors (automotive industry)
De Beers, Diamond Development Company t/a Diamdel (mining industry)
Miele SA (retail Industry)
Wade Walker (construction industry)

Summary of Client Experience:
Identify key risk areas and discuss the audit approach.
Monitored and reviewed the work of junior staff members on the audit team and preparing performance appraisals.
Identified and trialled key controls within significant business cycles and prepared management report for identified weaknesses and recommendations for the correction thereof.
Verified the adequacy and appropriateness of accounting procedures and policies.
Reviewed the results of foreign subsidiaries and the consolidation thereof into the holding company’s results.
Verified compliance of financial statements and financial packs with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and International Financial Reporting Standards.

ADDITIONAL PORTFOLIOS AND INTERESTS AT DELOITTE:
Founder and Executive Member Social Responsibility Committee 2006-2008
The committee provided financial support to a foster home. She was responsible for engaging with the foster home, fundraising and the treasury function of the committee as well as approving all expenditure and any marketing of their campaigns.


Achievements
Deloitte Way awards for:
Brand Eminence for their group charity drive that sher was responsible for the planning and co-ordination of the renovation of all bedrooms of a children’s foster home. The renovations were completed on time and within budget. She was responsible for fundraising, treasury, approving expense and management of the team. 
Innovation for initiating and organising new services to be available to all employees.
Reason for Leaving :
Articles completed.










MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 7
	Candidate Name 	|	 REF Candidate \h  \* MERGEFORMAT Emma Cole. XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Elmarié Muhl





