
“All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment”
Position Applied For:

Candidate Name:
Yogin Reddy
MPC Consultant Name:
Tracy Redfern
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(031) 562 8001 
Date Referred:


Personal Details
Surname :
Reddy
First Names :
Yogin 
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English 
EE/AA Status :
EE (Asian male) 
Availability :
1 calendar month 

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Autovest Limited 
Group Financial Accountant 
Aug 2010 to Present 
Deloitte & Touche 
Senior Trainee Accountant 
Jan 2010 to March 2010 and 2007 to 2009 

Academic History

Qualification :
CA (SA)
Date Completed :
2009
Institution :
S.A.I.C.A. 

Qualification :
Degree – Bachelor of Commerce Honours 
Date Completed :
2006
Institution :
University of Kwa-Zulu Natal 

Qualification :
Degree – Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting) 
Date Completed :
2005
Institution :
University of Kwa-Zulu Natal 

Qualification :
Matric 
Date Completed :
2002
Institution :
Newhaven Secondary School 
 
Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
Ms Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook 


ACHIEVEMENTS
Qualifying Examination (Part 2) - Passed on first attempt 2008
Qualifying Examination (Part 1) - Passed on first attempt 2007
Postgraduate Degree completed Cum Laude
Undergraduate Degree completed Summa Cum Laude
Certificate of Merit – Mathematics C -2003
Deans Commendation -2003
Certificate of Merit – Accounting 2 -2004
Certificate of Merit – Accounting Information Systems -2004
Certificate of Merit – Economics 2B -2004
Deans Commendation -2004
Certificate of Merit – Accounting 3 -2005
Certificate of Merit – Auditing 3 -2005
Certificate of Merit – Taxation 3 -2005
Certificate of Merit – Managerial Accounting and Finance -2005
Deans Commendation -2005
Member of the Golden Key Society




































Yogin Reddy 
Resumé of Career to Date

Company Name :
Autovest Limited 
Type of Industry :
Automotive / Manufacturing industry 
Period of Employment :
August 2010 to Present 
Position :
Group Financial Accountant 
Duties :


Consolidation of the group management accounts on a monthly basis that is submitted to the board of directors. 
Consolidation of group budget that is submitted to the board of directors for approval 
Consolidation of group 6 month forecast that is submitted to the board of directors for approval. 
Review of divisional management accounts, investigate variances and provide explanations for variances. 
Preparation of 5 year group forecast. 
Prepare and submit provisional and annual tax returns. 
Preparation and submission of EMP201 and dividends withholding tax return. 
Review VAT returns on a monthly basis and ensure timeous submission. 
Ensure the external audit requirements are complied with and prepare the necessary audit schedules. 
Prepare company and group annual financial statements. 
Assist with the preparation of relevant information for the Board and Audit Committee meetings. 
Responsible for the accounting of the head office cost centre. 
Consolidation of cash flow forecast and responsible for effective cash management for the group. 
Assist with business acquisitions of the group. 
Exposure to Pastel Evolution accounting system. 
Attend to `ad hoc’ tasks as assigned by the Financial Director. 
Perform any other duty that is in the best interest of the Company that is legal and lawful.
Reason for Leaving :
Career growth. 







Company Name :
Deloitte & Touche 
Type of Industry :
Financial services 
Period of Employment :
Seconded to Deloitte Dubai January  2010 – March 2010 and 2007 to 2009 
Position :
Senior Trainee Accountant 
Duties :


Performed statutory audits at clients listed below. 
Responsible for the planning and reporting. 
Planning included the setting of audit programs. 
Responsible for auditing of the consolidation at The McCarthy Group Limited.
Responsible for the review of annual financial statements.
Responsible for coaching and on the job training of junior engagement team.
Responsible for liaising with other departments within Deloitte (Tax, Forensics, Enterprise Risk Management).
Main Clients:
The SPAR Group Limited
The McCarthy Group Limited
Diverse Labelling Consultants (Proprietary) Limited.
Ninian and Lester (Proprietary) Limited.
Grindrod Intermodal a division of Grindrod South Africa. 
Reason for Leaving :
Completed articles. 










MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 5
	Candidate Name 	|	Yogin Reddy  XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Tracy Redfern





