
CONFIDENTIALITY CLAUSE:  All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment
Position Applied For:
Desktop Support Engineer
Candidate Name:
Bonga Fati
MPC Consultant Name:
Nwabisa Nkwinti
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(021) 552 8048
Date Referred:
13 July 2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Fati
First Names :
Bonga
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English and IsiXhosa
EE/AA Status :
Black, Male
Availability :
One Month
Current Salary :
R12 000pm
Expected Salary :
R15 000pm

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Vodacom (Pty) Ltd.
Support Engineer
Oct 2014 – Current 
Department of Correctional Services (Western Cape Region)
Network Controller
Oct 2013 – Sep 2014 
Academic History
Qualification :
Bachelor of Commerce (Information Systems) Degree
Date Completed :
2010
Institution :
University of Fort Hare

Qualification :
Matric
Date Completed :
2007
Institution :
Gobe Commercial High School – Kentane, Eastern Cape


Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
Microsoft Office
Linux / Unix
BAS (Basic Accounting Systems) – LOGIS, Persal, A&R Prison System
Storage & Backup Devices
Software Installation
Configuring and Troubleshooting PC’s & Printers
Exchange Server & Active Directory
Helpdesk (1st & 2nd Line Support)


Additional Training and Skills
Key Skills and Attributes
Good Communication Skills
Problem Solving skills
Highly determined and willingness to learn
Configuring & Trouble-shooting in a IT environment
Time Management
Team Player

Bonga Fati
Resumé of Career to Date
Company Name :
Vodacom (Pty) Ltd (StorTech)
Period of Employment :
October 2014 – Current 
Position :
Support Engineer
Duties :


Perform administrative tasks for the relevant applications supported by Customer Experience & Performance management team .i.e. ProAction, Touchpoint and DataMart.
Responsible for technical support of the relevant software applications. Perform daily health checks for the relevant applications.
Responsible for monitoring subscriber events event using ProAction & Touchpoint. 
Ensure that the application (ProAction & Touchpoint) servers are running at all times. 
Also responsible for performing incident/task co-ordination and request updates/feedback from the CEM team members.  
Responsible for fault tickets co-ordination with the Vodacom vendors. And lastly, 
Assist the NMG OSS First Line in performing Incident/Task co-ordination for all other NMG OSS workgroups on Remedy. 
Assist NMG OSS First Line with P3 incidents on Vantage, Alcatel MW, Tellabs & Touchpoint.
Reason for Leaving :
Career growth


Company Name :
Department of Correctional Services (Western Cape Region)
Period of Employment :
October 2013 – September 2014 
Position :
Network Controller
Duties :


Responsible for day to day IT responsibilities (i.e. ensuring that all the users are connected to the network & Emails, Formatting & reloading PC’s, troubleshooting & configuring PC’s and Printers, adding\creating new users on Active Directory). 
Responsible for making sure that the email servers are up and running at all times, and that the users are able to send and receive emails. 
To make sure that all the right software is installed in all the computers, and also to make sure that all the anti-viruses are up to date. Ensure that all the users are connected and can use the printers.
Reason for Leaving :
Contract ended


Company Name :
Amatole District Municipality (Eastern Cape)
Period of Employment :
December 2011 – December 2012 
Position :
Desktop Support Technician
Duties :


Responsible for setting up and configuring Desktops & Laptops (formatting and reloading), setting up printers, Blackberry devices and other mobile devices such as 3G cards for laptops, setting up the LAN and wireless network, configuring and setting up office Telephones. 
Responsible for troubleshooting network related problems that the users experience e.g. Internet, Emails, Printer connection, Telephone etc.
Also did these activities remotely in the case of remote offices, using VNC or through Email and Telephone. 
At the IT helpdesk, took and recorded calls logged by the users, and help them remotely, or simply assign the task to a Technician to go help the user.
Accompany the Amathole District municipality officials on road shows, to provide them with IT assistance (Internet access, Emails, Printing and set up for presentations). 
Also provided IT assistance at meetings with setting up projectors, etc.
Reason for Leaving :
Contract ended and relocated to Cape Town


Company Name :
Woolworths
Period of Employment :
June 2011 – December 2011
Position :
First Line Support & Cashier
Duties :


Providing first line support on the IT equipment within the store, and escalate the problem to the Woolworths head office in cases where the problem cannot be solved.  
As a cashier the main responsibility was to make sure that the customer pays the right amount of money for the goods / product they are willing to buy. 
Responsible to make sure that the customer gets the best service. 
Also obliged in making sure that one has a broad and good knowledge about the Woolworths products, and know when there are specials on certain products. 
Helped in cleaning the Woolworths waste shop, and also helped in unpacking the small goods within the shop, such as sweets and toiletries.
Reason for Leaving :
Contact ended










MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 3
	Candidate Name 	|	Bonga Fati XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Nwabisa Nkwinti (021) 552 8048





