
CONFIDENTIALITY CLAUSE:  All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment
Position Applied For:
IT Technician
Candidate Name:
Michael Uys
MPC Consultant Name:
Colleen Stevenson
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(021) 552 8048
Date Referred:
01 September 2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Uys
First Names :
Michael
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English, 
EE/AA Status :
White, Male
Availability :
30 Days
Current Salary :
R14 000pm
Expected Salary :
R18 000pm

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
BT Global Services
Help Desk Advisor 
Jan 2014 - Current
Acnode: cc
IT Technician/ Remote Support/ Onsite Support
Apr 2012 – Dec 2012
Academic History
Qualification :
Matric
Date Completed :
2007
Institution :
HS Brackenfell /Intec College
 

Additional Training 
INSTITUTION:		Dynamix .Learning Solution			
COURSE:			MCITP (Active directory) 
Duration:                             2009
COURSE COMPLETED:	MCTS/MCP/N+/A+


Studying - Cisco CCNA


Skills
Excellent communicator
Diligent and hard worker
Excellent interpersonal skill, co-operative, patient and supportive
Capable of the sustained effort necessary to take a project from conception to completion
Self-motivated; able to set effective priorities to achieve immediate and long term goals
Highly adaptable and comfortable with unconventional settings and situations
Organized and effective; enjoy developing and implementing new ideas, techniques and the creative process as a whole
Adapt at sizing up situations, analyzing facts and developing alternative courses of action
Detail and quality orientated
High degree of initiative and able to work independently or part of a team
Adapt easily to new concepts and responsibilities
Michael Uys
Resumé of Career to Date
Company Name :
BT Global Services
Type of Industry :
Telecommunications
Period of Employment :
January  2014 - Current
Position :
Help Desk Advisor (1st Line Data and Voice)
Duties :


Service assurance encompassing the following:

Fault and event management
Performance management
Probe monitoring
Quality of service (QoS) management
Network and service testing
Network traffic management
Customer experience management
Service level agreement (SLA) monitoring
Trouble ticket management
Logging call with Remedy AR System
Help desk support to clients via telephone and team viewer
Knowledge of IP networks, routing, switching and firewalls
Monitor system performance
Training clients on how to use the BT products
Cisco Call Manager Configuration
Conference Call
Avaya CCPE Support experience 
Thorough understanding of MPLS performance in respect of Availability, Packet Loss, Latency and jitter.
Microsoft Windows server knowledge including Active Directory
Thorough understanding of Service Level Agreements regarding network performance for customers.
Thorough understanding of Mean Time to Repair analysis against customer Service level Agreements.
Provable experience managing and leading teleconferences with customers and suppliers regarding Service queries.
Experience meeting stringent deadlines for resolving Incidents. 




Duties & Responsibilities

Proactively monitor/manage Network Monitoring Systems alerts.
Ticket logging and managing incidents.
Incident Escalation internally and with vendors.
Analyse Incident Trends and create and manage problem tickets.
Provide High Quality Feedback to Customers and Suppliers during incident life cycle.
Update customers and suppliers proactively hourly during incidents.
Update Internal Systems during incident life cycle.
Secure Reason for Outage from supplier when incident is resolved and update ticket status.
Ensure all CMC policies and procedures are adhered to.
Conduct daily back up tape changes and update on status.
Video conferencing
Compile and Release a Shift Handover.
Ensuring that the network infrastructure is up and running.
Cirix experience

Reason for Leaving :
Contract role, looking for stability 

January 2013 – December 2013: Travelling and looking for a new job

Company Name :
Acnode: cc
Type of Industry :
IT
Period of Employment :
Apr 2012 – Dec 2012
Position :
IT Technician/ Remote Support/ Onsite Support
Duties :


Server maintenances
Pc setups
Call outs
Cloud email support
Cable jobs
Printer problems
Network problems
Hardware Problems           
 
Reason for Leaving :
Retrenched











MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 4
	Candidate Name 	|	Michael Uys
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Nwabisa Nkwinti  (021) 552 8048





