
CONFIDENTIALITY CLAUSE:  All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment
Position Applied For:
Store Manager
Candidate Name:
Catherine Liddell
MPC Consultant Name:
Colleen Stevenson
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(021) 552 8048
Date Referred:
8 August 2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Liddell
First Names :
Catherine
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English and Afrikaans
EE/AA Status :
White Female
Availability :
Immediate
Expected Salary :
R 15 000 plus commission

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Scan Retail Solutions
Regional Retail Manager
Jan 2013 – Jan 2015
PSG Consult
CRM Project Co-ordinator & Internal Marketing Manager
Jun 2011 – Jan 2012

Candidate Summary
“Having a passion for fashion, beauty and retail since a young age, I continuously pursue my desire for further education within this field and see every prospect as an opportunity to learn different aspects of business in entirety. I am highly motivated and self-driven. Through the application of emotionally intelligent leadership abilities I have enjoyed managing and motivating teams to excel towards positive results. 
As a person who likes to be impressed by good client service, I strive to impress and attain excellent customer satisfaction results. I am flexible to changing environments and pride myself to deliver results in any role. With the constant evolution of marketing and communication methods, keep up to date with social trends and omni-channel development.
With at least 9 years of combined experience in client services and sales, marketing co-ordination, product, account and category management, I would like the opportunity to become an integral part of your company vision and to benefit intellectually from the existing company expertise. 
Having recently moved to Cape Town from Pretoria, I am seeking a career to increase and nurture my experience and love of the different aspects of business.”

Academic History
Qualification :
Bachelor of Consumer Science, Clothing
Date Completed :
2005
Institution :
University of Pretoria

Qualification :
Matric
Date Completed :
1999
Institution :
Ladysmith High School


Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office
Pastel
Quickbooks





Additional Training and Skills
2014 – 2015: Professional Make-up Artistry Certificate, The Makeup Issue, Centurion, Gauteng
Professional memberships
TUKS alumni
Financial Advisory Intermediary Services Act compliant (30 credits) 
Financial Intelligence Centre Act compliant
Financial Services Board, (FSB) regulatory exam, first level: representative (certificate number PR038800)
SASCC - Member of the South African Shopping Centre Association
Career highlights
The marketing and production of a new line of clothing. 
Draping evening gowns for a fashion show. 
Designing and manufacturing a production line. 
Compiling educational content, training documentation, newsletters and publications using different mediums and software. 
Creating designs and presenting story/mood boards. 
Fast rate of promotion to managerial roles.
Assisting with the design and implementation of the Magnum ice cream 25 year birthday concept store in Rosebank, JHB.
Creating the African Fashion International (AFI) pop-up store for the Mercedes Benz fashion week 2014, Melrose Arch, JHB.
Coordinating the export of display cases to Africa for LG electronics.
Developing an entrepreneurial business to exist in the current economy.
Being team leader and spokesperson on numerous occasions.
Assisting as makeup artist for The International Talent Showcase 2014.
Assistant makeup artist on set for health and fitness series; "Zest for Life."
Arranging collections for charitable organisations such as Tshwane Homes and The Monkey Sanctuary.
PSG Konsult's Team Captain at the CANSA Relay for Life charity event, winning the best stand award and awarded first place for the team who completed the most laps within a continuous 24 hour duration.
Meeting Kingsley Holgate at the SACSC.
Member of the charity organisation "The Makeup Angels."


Catherine Liddell
Resumé of Career to Date
Company Name :
Scan Retail Solutions
Type of Industry :
Design
Period of Employment :
January 2013 – January 2015
Position :
Regional Retail Manager
Duties :


Complete turnkey project management and statistical reporting.  
Offering off-the-shelf and custom-designed products, including interior signage and branding, shopping kiosks, shop-fittings, bespoke displays and modular and mobile meeting rooms. 
Liaising with clients on initial concepts, conducting site visits and recording of measurements in relation to space provided.
Managing projects with an in-house team of Industrial, 3D and graphic designers. 
Assisting with concept generation, sourcing various suppliers and obtaining competitive quotes, cost negotiation and handling of payments. 
Direct preparation of work plans, supervise project teams, and manage project scope, budget and schedule.
Controlling processes over manufacturing, large format printing and retail lighting requirements, Ensuring company quality standards, operating processes, company policies and all legislative requirements are understood, implemented and adhered to at all times.
Setting up of site inductions and risk assessments.
Co-ordinating sub-contractors to ensure efficiency of work.
Overseeing multiple projects at one time. Working with a large portfolio of brands.
Solving design and technical issues on site.
Overseeing project safety and quality control.
Liaising with design and construction teams in achieving projects on time and within budget, Ensuring integrity & accuracy of project information.
Managing brand launches and displays for co-ordinated events and store openings.
Researching and implementing training courses for staff within specialised fields to ensure continuous professional development.
Attending numerous national and international networking events. 
Chairing of weekly department meetings and resolving staff issues.
Staff performance appraisals and salary negotiations.
Development and maintenance of CRM systems.
Marketing to prospective clients through social media. 
Coordinating photo shoots of completed events and installations. 
Managing content uploads and write-ups for social media platforms.
Compiling SWOT analyses for annual brainstorm meetings.
Reason for Leaving :
Relocated to Cape Town


Company Name :
PSG Konsult
Type of Industry :
Financial Services
Period of Employment :
June 2011 – January 2013
Position :
CRM Project Co-ordinator & Internal Marketing Manager
Duties :


Client relationship management and consultant project co-ordination for leading independent financial services company within the short term insurance sector.
Implementing and managing numerous projects in conjunction with the CRM system to maximise growth and profitability.
Optimizing project scope, time and budget using marketing programs and ability to update CRM fields. 
Statistical data reporting to Exco.
Marketing through publications and media presentations. 
Training associates and conducting effective performance development sessions along with presenting related documentation. 
Creating weekly company newsletters, presentations and weekly reports. 
Planning, organizing, securing, managing, leading, and controlling resources to achieve specific goals. 
Building the project team. 
Creating and analyzing weekly stats to optimize project objectives. Managing the projects strategic goals and quantifying its value.
Undertakings to meet unique goals and objectives. 
Optimization of the Project scope, time and budget. 
Choreographing project launches as well as re-launches. 
Creating of company brochures using Photoshop. 
Weekly statistic reporting to CEO’s and Exco. 
Utilising dashboards and burn down charts for reporting. 
Assisting with the implementation of a CRM system and providing training on the use thereof. 
Motivating teams to increase sales of "value added products" (VAPs) and up selling of policies. 
Instilling a sense of outstanding client service within each consultant.  
Attending strategic planning meetings and offering valuable advice. 
Creating weekly presentations to be played on screens throughout the office.
Creating incentive programs to unilaterally run with projects. 
Compiling SWOT analyses for annual brainstorms.
Reason for Leaving :
Head hunted


Company Name :
FSP Solutions
Type of Industry :
Insurance
Period of Employment :
March 2008 – May 2011
Position :
Client Services Department (CSD Manager)
Promoted from
Client Services Consultant
Duties :


Client Services Department Manager (June 2009 – May 2011)
Coordinating with internal and external sources to support client service delivery values and goals for an independent insurance aggregator and facilitator of short term insurance policies. 
Offering pertinent inputs to diagnose problem areas and functional needs. 
Designing improvement initiatives and quality control trends through capture and analysis of department statistics. 
Fill vacancies and coach new client service associates on policies and procedures.
Development and execution of process controlled sales and client service improvement initiatives. Educating consultants on time management and the benefits of being self-driven.
Setting of objectives, planning, decision making, organising, managing communication and monitoring end of the month figures and stats to multiple insurers. 
Loading and drawing of refund control files. 
Quality control of anniversary reports before release. 
Monthly reasoning’s for discount over 20% reports.  
Conducting and updating One-on-Ones and control sheets respectively. 
Listening to calls and spot checking consultants work quality. 
Regular CSD consultant evaluations. Handling queries from agents. Resolving agent concerns.
Documenting warnings, applying fair treatment and handling of all departmental disciplinary proceedings.
Handling of leave forms, consultants timeliness and attendance. Researching new business opportunities and leadership skills. 
Logging IT action requests (Jira). Communicating with the IT department on all platform and system related queries.
"Manage By Walking Around". 
Updating and reviewing stats in order to manage-up. 
Obtaining information from Insurers. Allocating and delegating tasks and e-mails to consultants. Responding to Broker and client complaints as well as FSP staff mails. 
Conducting regular departmental and junior executive managerial meetings.
Assisting with the development of the Electronic Lead Distribution (ELD) system.
Clearing and referring Insurer errors and pulling audit trail reports for claim investigation. 
Sending client bulk SMS’ and allocating replies (Winsms) through the system CRM function. 
Updating call information. Assigning extensions to agents and handling floor plans for VOIP (CCS). 
Drawing of telephone reports for stat use (Man 3000). 
Creating and updating all department process flows and training manuals. 
Handling Ombudsman complaints and responses. 
Proof reading documents on Directors behalves before end release. 
Arranging and co-ordinating all social, Insurer and formal functions. Chairing of all charitable donation runs.
Compiling SWOT analyses for annual brainstorms.
Motivating of CPD for employees to obtain credits and become compliant as per the FSB requirements.
Client Services Consultant (March 2008 – June 2009)
Dealing with clients and brokers. 
Underwriting of short term insurance policies for seven different products and 5 different VAPS. 
Quotations, amendments, cancellations. Handling R/D’s and 2nd R/D’s. 
Claims underwriting. 
Processing and following up with relevant tracking companies. 
Handling client complaints. 
Sales of dual cover policies. 
Saving policies by offering alternate quotes or revaluating policies. 
Processing companies' weekly refunds and confirmations. 
Distributing tasks fairly to staff members in order to even out workloads. 
Handling queries and problem solving. Handling client complaints. 
Weekly Training of new consultants and updating the training manual. 
Setting up of lunch and task roster, Processing policy rebrokes. 
Quoting and underwriting of long term funeral policies. 
Assessing colleagues' daily activities and providing feedback to the managers.
Arranging and taking minutes of all meetings, Brainstorming new processes. 
Updating and issuing consultants statistics to the CSD Manager.
Drawing and checking of reports, Drawing and listening to client/consultant tapes. 
Assisting the claims departments in policy queries. 
Assisting with all social functions. 
Assisting with IT system testing. 
Reason for Leaving :
No room for growth








Company Name :
Confidence Recruitment
Type of Industry :
Recruitment
Period of Employment :
September 2007 – December 2007
Position :
Recruitment Executive
Duties :


Cold calling telephonically and personally, 
Interviewing candidates,  
Follow ups, 
Compiling CV’s,  
Maintaining leads, 
Consulting with clients and candidates. 
Market analysing.  
Reason for Leaving :
Company closed

Company Name :
GDL Jewellery / Kleins
Type of Industry :
Retail
Period of Employment :
February 2006 – September 2007
Position :
Store Manager
Duties :


Managing day to day tasks of a high-end Accessories retail store. Inventory and stocktaking. 
Managing of staff and delegating duties. 
Sales, customer queries and maintaining service levels. 
Monitoring stock levels. 
Ordering and purchasing of stock. 
Setting and obtaining targets. 
Daily banking and the handling of financial statements. 
Fashion forecasting and quarterly reporting. Knowledge of products, including a hat and watch section, so as to repair the item on damage or return.
Reason for Leaving :
Head hunted






Company Name :
Chrysalis
Type of Industry :
Marketing & Advertising
Period of Employment :
2005
Position :
Head Designer
Pattern Maker & Seamstress


Company Name :
Catherine Liddell Swimming Club
Type of Industry :
Sport 
Period of Employment :
2003
Position :
Head Coach



Company Name :
Red Hot Promotions
Type of Industry :
Promotions
Period of Employment :
2002 - 2003
Position :
Promoter










MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2
	Candidate Name 	|	Catherine Liddell XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Colleen Stevenson (021) 552 8048





