



Candidate Name:
Hluzingqondo Ncobeni 
MPC Consultant Name:

Date Referred:



Personal Details
Surname :
Ncobeni 
First Names :
Hluzingqondo Pamlette (Known as Pam) 
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English, Afrikaans and SiSwati 
EE/AA Status :
AA (Black female)
Availability :
Immediately

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
uShaka Marine World t/a DMTP
HR Executive 
Aug 2013 – Nov 2015
Mancosa
HR Manager
Feb 2013 – July 2013
Pan African Development (Pty) Ltd
HR Manager
Apr 2008 – June 2011
Interaction – MTN 
HR Manager 
Oct 2006 – Apr 2008
Edcon 
Regional Human Resources Manager
Sept 2003 – Sept 2006

Academic History

Qualification :
Bachelor of Social Science 
Date Completed :
1996
Institution :
University of Natal 

Qualification :
LLB 
Date Completed :
Incomplete 
Institution :
University of Natal 

Qualification :
Matric 
Date Completed :
1992
Institution :
Thembeka Secondary School 
 
Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Project, Fuel), Pastel Payroll, VIP, HR Focus, Internet 

Additional Training and Skills
Translation Certificate – University of Natal (1998) 
Business Management Short Course – University of Natal (1997) 
Targeted Selection / Competency Interviewing 
Job Evaluation / Grading 
High Performing People 
Employment Law Game Show 
Employee Relations 
Financial Forecasting and Analysis 
HIV / Aids Training 
Hluzingqondo Ncobeni 
Resumé of Career to Date

Company Name :
uShaka Marine World t/a DMTP
Type of Industry :
Hospitality
Period of Employment :
August 2013 – November 2015
Position :
HR Executive
Duties :


The HR Strategy was crafted to align with the Business Plan, the Value Proposition as well as the overall organizational road map. The roadmap tackles how HR will develop, implement and execute strategic initiatives that align with the overall Business and People Strategy.
 A custodian of the HR Budget – value R 2million p/annum. Ensuring that the budget is utilized as per it’s purpose and that HR conducts financial forecasts to avoid over expenditure as well as fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Evaluating variable costs and incorporating them into the budget as part of forecasts. Reviewing the budget monthly, identification of disparities and anomalies and seek explanation(s). Taking corrective action where required.
Implemented the People Philosophy Strategy as well its TOR. The concept aligns with the Best Company To Work For, identification of what People Strategies can we put in place to turn the company around. Nominated a Committee through ballot and we met quarterly to tackle the TOR and reporting to the CEO/ RemCom and the Board. 
Achievement: this was my unique innovation and the staff morale was increased as staff saw change happening. The survey was conducted using the monkey survey instrument.
HR conducted a Compensation/ Rewards Survey that will verify whether the company pay market related salaries within the industry in which we operate. 
Interviewing a sample staff per grading as part of Job Analysis. 
HR worked hand in hand with Deloitte. The findings were presented to the CE/ RemCom and the Board. 
HR presented a Rewards Framework that aligns with Talent Management and uShaka’s appetite for equity and pay for performance.
HR presented the pay variables between similar positions within the same grading. A medium to long terms plan was proposed and adopted to remedy the pay gaps/ disparities.
Providing an oversight role regarding – implementation of Risk Management within HR, Monitoring, Adhering and reviewing the set procedures, COSO Model Analysis and aligning it with the organization, Conducting Risk Analysis, Risk Identification, Assessments, Putting Controls in place and Avoidance strategies. HR implemented strategies in a case where risk would be imminent and how the scenario will be tackled to mitigate the risk. Monthly meetings held with Council to track progress and gauge the effectiveness of each Executives/ departmental controls, Review action plans, Reviewing our Risk appetite and tolerance level.
Re-launched the EE Strategy and as an HR Executive I was the Deputy
Chairperson; Selection of a Committee through Ballot and meeting monthly to determine whether targets were met or not. If not met, conduct an investigation and put forward a remedial action. Reporting to RemCom and the Board quarterly.
Achievement: the Park met its target for the first time within the (employment of employees with disabilities- PWD) category.
Proposed the ER Strategy to the CE and RemCom and was well received. The Strategy included the five ER Pillars that were tapped into that ought to bring about change in the way ER matters are handled.  HR conducted an ER climate survey to review staff understanding of the subject matter.
Quarterly report highlights: ER Costs, Number of sanctions and transgressions, Compliance with awards and settlements, Investigations, Dismissals, Retrenchments, Grievance Hearings, Disciplinary action, Park audits etc. Achievement: this was my innovation, unheard of at uShaka.
Represented the Employer Task Team. Had to build good relations with the Shopstewards as well as the UASA Union Official(s). HR adopted a proactive approach whereby challenges were outlined in our monthly meetings and a Task Team per mandate will be formed and assist the task Team with setting up it’s own TOR. HR set up an email address for the Shopstewards and they were given the platform to engage transparently and openly with Management. Represented the Employer during wage negotiations.
The study reviewed the diligence, competence and effectiveness of the HR Department as well as challenges faced because of the paradoxical role of HR. It furthermore reviewed intellectual expertise as well as the HR team’s competitiveness. Findings and action plans were forwarded to the Board for endorsement.
Proposed to the CE/ RemCom and the Board that the company ought to implement an e-HR Programme and this was well received. This was due to the fact that there were endless challenges regarding payroll, leave calculations, manual printing of pay slips which costs thousands and not environmentally friendly etc. The team embarked upon a rollout requiring comments from all staff and reviewing pros and cons. The benefits: e-pay slip, leave review online, applying for leave online, electronic queries and escalations etc.
Achievement: this was also another innovative proposal that I implemented but unfortunately it was not executed.
I was part of the Task Team that reviewed the Integrated Development Plan aligned with the City and setting up imperatives over a 5 to 10 year period. 
Implemented newsletter with the intent staff abreast with ER matters as it was educational and informative. It was insightful and it also had a comments section from staff - The Newsletter touched on all HR initiatives taking place and it kept staff updated on progress made every step of the way.
uShaka aligned with the Municipality’s Dept. of Health and aligned some initiatives with theirs. 
Recruitment Reinvented is the motto. HR tackled the pros and cons of using Social Media in Recruitment and it’s risks.
Implementation of a Training Academy and the Board gave the go-ahead to source bigger premises for the Academy. 
Integrated Talent Management – the first ever initiative to be proposed by the HRE. The Framework included: Management Development Programme, Succession Planning, Cross Functional Training and Retention Strategies. Drafting of IDP’s, Conducting sessions with staff ensuring buy-in. My role once implemented, was to ensure that it is executed across all levels and tracking progress as we go along. Furthermore, formulating talent plans, identification of talent pools with Line, conducting a risk and needs analysis.
Reason for Leaving :
Got very frustrated not being able to fully implement proper HT strategy due to red tape and politics

Company Name :
Mancosa
Type of Industry :
Higher educational institution
Period of Employment :
February – July 2013
Position :
HR Manager
Duties :



Collation of data to predict workforce trends, reduce risk and an analysis of the future. The Predictive Analytics focuses on improving the organization’s performance and aligns with the Red Ocean Strategy thus maintaining a competitive edge. Further analysis of employee engagements, Social Capital, Performance optimization measures, Leadership performance and A Return on Investment in our Employees.
Conducting an audit if the HR Department’s processes, guidelines and policies. Conducting an analysis of the challenges that were faced by the HR Department: what has been set up? Is it working? Why did it not work? What is working and setting up imperatives for the HR Department.
Defining the organizational architectures – how Mancosa operates, competencies,      governance structures and the Leadership.   Assessment of processes as well as application and consistency.  Coming up with remedial actions. Setting up of priorities.
Implementation of Training; Learning and Development Strategy to support the Institutions business goals, Monitor the efficiency of training. Compilation of quarterly training reports, Co-ordinating the PhD Programme, Co-ordinating the Academic Leadership Programme, Conducting Skills Audits for Directors, Academics, Management and Staff. Conducting post-training interventions to identify whether training did achieve the intended outcomes, Conducting cost-benefit analysis. Monitor progress against strategy.
Revise and implement a performance appraisal tool to measure employee performance, Use the results of performance management assessment to to inform staff regarding specific training needs, Conducting appraisals bi-annually. Ensure that the goals as well as the job profiles have been signed off. 
Making presentations to Directors per quarter, Develop HR Indicators and matrices for the institution, Compilation of ATR’s and WSP’s, analysis as well as highlighting recommendations for improvement.   Making presentation to the HR Committee (Chairperson) regarding latest trend in HR as well as addressing Strategic Human Resources Management issues (Quarterly).Health and Safety Committee, QA Committee, Transformation Steering Committee (Chairperson).
 Implementation of Talent Acquisition Processes and Flowcharts, Acting at an advisory capacity to the HOD’s, Academics, Management as well as the Directors regarding current recruitment instruments. Ensuring that the recruitment process is procedurally and substantively fair. Conducting interviews as well as recommendations of candidates that meet the inherent requirements of the position. Giving unsuccessful (internal) candidates feedback.



Implementation of an on-boarding programme, Conducting on-boarding for newly appointed employees and current employees (refresher).
Revising policies in line with statutes, Implementation of key HR PPP’s and presenting them to the Board of Directors for approval.
Implementation of ER Practices and Guidelines ( DE Notification, Sanctions, CCMA case withdrawal notification, Grievance processes, Findings and sanction formalities etc.).
Implementation of ER Loggers, Recruitment Loggers, HRIS in line with VIP Payroll, Ensure that leave (annual ) credits appear on pay slips
Reason for Leaving :
Resigned to join DMTP. Senior HR Role and area of responsibility


Company Name :
Pan African Development (Pty) Ltd 
Type of Industry :
Construction 
Period of Employment :
April 2008 – June 2011 
Position :
HR Manager 
Duties :


Reporting to Managing Director 
Overseeing and being accountable to Managing Director for the day to day running of the department 
Managing a team of 6 direct reports (HR, Finance and Administration / Training Team) 
Strategy Implementation and day-to-day operations: 
Spearheaded the rollout of their Company strategy, strategic direction, vision and mission of Pandev 
Formation of the HR strategy and aligning it with the overall business strategy 
Drafting and execution of HR policies, processes and procedures 
ED steering committee member between Group 5 and Pandev and representing the Human Capital Department 
Implementation of their company budget iro all HR Initiatives etc 
Design and update job descriptions as required including KPA, KPI’s and CRA and Competency Frameworks 
Analysing the skills and capabilities required for each particular job and develop job descriptions 
Conducting job evaluation process. Previously graded jobs based on Hay and now setting it up on Peromnes 
Total Rewards Strategy: 
Involved in leveraging elements of culture, employee attracting, motivating and retention 
Analysis of the Total Rewards Strategy
Evaluating the exchange relationship (what the Employer and Employee provides) 
Contextualisation of the Total Rewards Strategy in respect of Business strategy, organisational culture, HR strategy, external influence factors etc 
Analysis of compensation, benefits, performance and recognition of career planning 
Budget Management: 
Implementation of their departmental budget 
Custodian of the budget and accountable to the MD re: all HR initiatives and projects i.e Training budget, traineeship, recruitment and advertising, stationery, wellness implementation etc 
Reconciliation at a quarterly basis  

OD & Performance Management: 
Help the executive team with business transformation initiatives 
Implementing interventions aimed at improving performance at organisation, team and individual level 
Conducting solid Risk Assessment 
Implementation of Pandev’s Individual Learning and Development Plans 
Provide an ongoing Performance Management process to ensure consistency and compliance 
Facilitate, support and introduce processes that ensure maximum performance 
Implementation of process which will effectively deal with poor performance 
Implementation of Pandev’s performance appraisals and review process 
Implemented a job grading / classification initiative. Used Paterson. Currently setting Peromnes in place 
Facilitate employee growth and career or succession planning through their Talent Management Initiative 
Payroll: 
Managing payroll clerk and monthly schedule of payroll expenses 
Gross salaries, overtime pay, PAYE, UIF, other allowances, total salaries, deductions, net salaries 
Reconciliation of the monthly analysis 
Management of tax year end for the business and compilation of IRP5’s for the tax season 
Management of payroll clinic 
Learnerships: 
Implementation of learnerships within Pandev 
Rollout to Management and employees to get a 100% buy-in 
Liaising with CETA re: our Learnerships and apprenticeship initiatives 
Attending meetings and outlining their intent 
Compilation of submission of Annual Training Reports and Workplace Skills Plan 
Conducting an analysis of qualification and preparing for the roll-out 
Employee Relations: 
Managing Employee Relations by understanding mutual expectations and encouraging effective dialogue between the Employees and Employer 
Consultation and negotiation with employee representatives organisations on organisational and collective matters 
Ensure effective management of conflict, grievances and disciplinary enquiries 
Offer sound advise to all management levels 
Ensure preparation and presentation at the CCMA for conciliations and arbitration / corn-arb including drafting of arguments and consultation and preparation of witnesses 
Drafting all charges for disciplinary enquiries in line with their ER Policy and statutory requirements and assist with the investigation and preparation of case for disciplinary enquiries 
Facilitate and chairing of all disciplinary hearings and drafting of recommended sanctions 
Ensure that all disciplinary and grievance records are kept up to date 
Advise management on outcome of the disciplinary enquiries 
Ensure that strike contingency plans are always updated and communicated 
Monitor compliance with relevant legislation 
Development and facilitation of industrial relations training programme 
HR Audits: 
Implemented HR Audits 
These include HR Imperatives in respect to leave, HRIS, Employee Relations, HR Metrics, Budget, Payroll reconciliation etc 
Conducting audits monthly on the above mentioned initiatives 
Identification of out of liners and request feedback from stakeholders 
Employee motivation and satisfaction: 
Annually design and conducting effective climate / diagnostic surveys 
Co-ordinate the 360 degree process and feedback 
Sourcing of salary surveys and review with the MD on employee conditions and salary packages 
Bi-annually feedback to the MD regarding the overall business climate and recommendations to lift morale and performance. Setting up of actions plans to remedy “greys areas” 
Implemented the Employee of Choice Initiative which runs quarterly 
Health, Safety & Environmental Strategies: 
Prioritising Health, Safety and Environment Imperatives 
Implementing H&S policies and Line Managers and brainstorming initiatives in line with the statues 
Sending out H&S bulletins to their staff members 
Attending to H&S learning needs 
Completion of Workman’s Compensation formalities annually 
Managing Employer Risk & Liability: 
Termination assistance and support 
Facilitate consultation as required 
Conducting exit surveys
Reporting on voluntary and involuntary attrition at a monthly basis 
HR Forums: 
Implementation and spearheading of the Labour and Employment Equity Forums 
Educating the Committee members regarding the rules and intent of the Forum 
Implementation of a Service Level Agreement 
EE Forum – ensure compliance with statutory requirements, setting of goals and follow-through 
Currently setting up their Remuneration and Job Grading Committee 
Corporate Philanthropy: 
Implemented and spearheaded their CSI initiative(s)
Identification of communities or institutions that require assistance. Their focus is on Social Development as well as HIV and AIDS Orphans 
The initiatives is intended at remedying (long term) the maladies that affect their communities 
HR Reporting: 
Analysing of employee turnover quarterly 
Weekly reporting on all HR aspects, highlighting challenges as well as action plans 
Statistics of hires and fires in a month 
Training, Learning and Development 
Statutory Reporting: 
Employment Equity Plan 
Annual Training Report and Workplace Skills Plan (CETA) 
Statistics SA 
Compensation and Benefits Management: 
A custodian of their Payroll (Pastel) 
Management of medical aid 
Management of provident fund 
Termination and signoff 
Keep updates and posted on Provident Fund Laws 
Reason for Leaving :
Operational requirements (market saturation). The company had to retrench staff to remain afloat
.

Company Name :
Interaction (Subsidiary of Dialogue Group International) – MTN 
Type of Industry :
Call Centre 
Period of Employment :
October 2006 – April 2008
Position :
HR Manager 
Duties :


Overseeing and being accountable to Executives for the day-to-day running of the department. 
Heading an HR Team of 4 direct reports and a training department of 3 direct reports = 7. 
Representing the department in Opco Meetings. 
Strategy Implementation: 
Supporting the organisation’s goals through the development, implementation and management of the HR Strategy and process to ensure optimal utilisation of human capital in their business unit
Identifying and address HR implications of business strategy and plans 
Aligning the HR strategy with the overall business strategy 
Providing intellectual leadership regarding employees 
Advise and assist management team on all matters related to human resources management and practice, including business unit policies and legislative matters applicable to organisational changes 
Intellectual Capital: 
Understand the use of effective recruitment tools effectively 
Managing the end recruitment process in the business unit 
Recruiting a competent work force 
Delivery of a defined training programme with core courses to up skill the workforce 
Conducting skills audit 
Conducting research and learning opportunities within the business 
Setting up of service level agreements within the department 
Performance Management: 
Implementation and the co-ordination of a performance management tool called a DMJ 
Identification of gaps and bridging the gap through training 
Dealing with high flyer and incapacity cases 
Advising management through workshops on how to mentor and coach agents 
Learnerships: 
Implementation of a workplace skills plan tailor made for their Contact Centre. 
Liaising with SETA and co-ordinating a programme for their call centre i.e NQF Level 2 – 4
Execution of the learnership and being accountable to Executives and ensuring that the programme runs smoothly 
Appointment of a service provider – Institute of People Technology 
Employee Relations: 
Evaluation of ER practices and procedures 
Resolving workplace issues 
Implementation of an internal workplace forum and feedback structures 
Issuing the correct charge and act at an advisory capacity to management 
Reconvening Disciplinary enquiries 
Dealing with suspensions and termination of employment where applicable 
Representing the company at the CCMA 
Dealing with grievance hearings and review application (appeals) 
EE Reporting: 
Implementation of an Employment Equity Plan 
Ensure that the contact centre complies with legislation and set timetables 
Follow through on timetables and communicate with the relevant stakeholders 
Preparation of employment equity reports as well as its submission 
Implementation and setting up of their EAP Initiative. Rolling out HIV and AIDS training to all employees within their contact centre 
Affiliated with the Durban Chamber of Commerce to assist them with the project 
Nomination of peer educators as well as Help Centres for all employees 
Strategic Initiatives: 
Implementation of a Talent Management Framework that goes beyond career and succession planning i.e Traineeship Programme, Talent Management, Succession Planning (HR Planning), Retention Strategy implementation and rolling it to Executives 

Implemented brilliant and innovative strategic initiatives within the company e.g HR Road Shows and Leadership Road shows 
Implementation of their Corporate Social Investment with St Mary’s Hospital 
This initiative is now part of their business strategy. 
Reporting: 
Weekly reports and month-end reports and a close analysis on attrition as well as action plans 
Conducting audits regarding misconduct and misappropriation and look at action plans 
Monthly training reports highlights challenges, lowlights and action plans 
Reward & Recognition: 
Administering a clear and transparent salary process 
Managing payroll, terminations, new recruits and ensuring that all new employees are loaded onto the database 
Preparations of annual salary reviews, in line with the appraisal strategy 
Conducting comparative reports to other companies and related industry positions 
Suggest ways of maximising performance through bonusing and commission
Reason for Leaving :
Career Growth


Company Name :
Edcon 
Type of Industry :
Retail 
Period of Employment :
September 2003 - September 2006
Position :
Regional Human Resources Manager 
Duties :


Overlooking 35 stores within the Midlands Region (Westville, Portshepstone, Kokstad, Umzimkulu, Eastern Cape, Umtata, Butterworth, Kingwilliamtown, Queenstown, Escort, Ladysmith, Newcastle area 
Strategic Partnerships: 
Identify and address HR implications of business strategy and plans 
Think strategically, consider long term views in decisions, and consider ways to gain competitive advantage 
Resource the HR function with professional and competent people 
Aligning HR strategies and practices with business strategy 
Participate in the process of defining business strategy 
Providing intellectual leadership regarding employees 
Integrating the business planning process within the HR Planning process 
Ensuring that strategic promises to customers and employees are kept  
Transaction services to employees (HR Technology): 
Implementation of HR Shared Service Centres 
Supporting the new model of HR Service Delivery 
Transforming and the re-alignment of HR 
Launching the knowledge base, thus ensuring the optimisation of business processes, HR systems and resources 
Benefit administration 
Training administration 
Absence tracking and employee turnover measurement against costs 
E-leave, e-payslips, e-talent acquisition, HR Activities (personal data) etc 
HR Champion: 
Budget management – ensuring that the division achieves the targeted total remuneration costs 
Monthly updates completed timeously without of lines identified and distributed timeously to all business partners 
Involvement in the day to day problems, concerns and needs of employees 
Linking employee contributions to the organisation’s success 
Listing, responding and finding ways to provide employees with resources that meet their changing environment 
Speak for employee’s needs and management’s concerns regarding industrial relations 
Be available and approachable to employees 
Develop the employee-company relationship 
Ensure that company contribution remains high
Focus on finding the fight balance between demands and resources 
Being the employee’s voice in management discussions 
Assuring employees that their concerns are being heard 
HR Expert: 
Recruitment / Resourcing – understand and use recruitment tools effectively 
Understand and identify the recruitment needs of her business area 
Apply the recruitment process fairly in line with the EEA 
Organisational Development: 
Training, development and learning – research, design, implement, and conducting training and development 
Encouraging the uptake of learning opportunities within the Midlands business area 
Help line management identify training needs and providing adequate assistance to line on training issues 
Performance management – using objective measurement and information systems to provide meaningful analysis of performance in the business area 
Resolve performance problems of staff
Facilitate performance feedback, coaching and reinforcement 
Reward Recognition – reward and recognition of performance in a fair manner, linked to performance and based on market rates 
Ensuring that the reward and recognition strategy is clearly communicate and understood 

Employee Relations: 
Employee Relations – evaluating ER practices and policies 
Consulting and negotiating with Trade Unions and the relevant third parties 
Resolving workplace issues, implementing internal workplace forums and feedback structures
Issuing of correct charges and providing sanctions to transgressions
Liaising with Shop Stewards 
Representing the Edcon Chain at a Regional and National Forum 
Managing Bargaining Unit and non Bargaining Unit employees 
HR Process Innovation – forecasting on HR requirements 
Organisational structuring and job designing 
Review HR process and technology to ensure high levels of support and service to the business unit 
Corporate Social Investment: 
CSI – Implemented, planned, organised and initiated the St Mary’s Children’s Ward Project (Orphans and Children Infected by the HIV / Aids pandemic)
Supported by all Stores in this initiative and their project was a success 
Employment Equity: 
Employment Equity – alignment of company policies to ensure best practice in EE implementation 
Setting of clear targets and timetables for achieving EE in the business unit 
Monitor and report progress to line on a regular basis 
Change Management Agent: 
Helping both employees and management to let of the old and to adapt a new culture 
Helping the company to identify a process of managing change 
Identifying and framing problems, building relationships of trust and fulfilling action plans 
Influence and drive organisational change strategies in support of business strategies 
Remain up to date about tools, techniques and practice of change in the business 
Build commitment to change process 
Management Development Programme: 
In charge of 17 Edcon Academy Trainees 
Ensuring that they have training material, a Mentor is available and that they are assessed twice annually 
Manage trainees who do not make the cut and put interventions forward
Reason for Leaving :
Job required extensive travelling – and the stores were geographically challenging. 














MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 14
	Candidate Name 	|	Hluzingqondo Ncobeni  XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Tracy Redfern 





