




“All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment”
Position Applied For:
 FORMTEXT Enter Position Here
Candidate Name:
Jeffery Smith 
MPC Consultant Name:
 FORMTEXT Enter MPC Consultant Name Here
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(031) 562 8001 
Date Referred:
 FORMTEXT Enter Date Here


Personal Details
Surname :
Smith 
First Names :
Jeffery (Known as Jeff) 
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English, Zulu, Afrikaans and German 
EE/AA Status :
EE (Coloured Male) 
Availability :
Immediately 
Location:
Durban







Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Toyota Boshoku 
Senior HR Manager 
July 2008 – Dec 2015 
Toyota SA Motors 
HR Manager – Production 
Jan 1998 – June 2008 
Nestle (SA) – Unionised (FAWU) 
Head of Human Resources 
Aug 1993 – Dec 1997 

Academic History
Qualification :
Honours Degree, B. Soc. Science (Majors Personnel Management) 
Date Completed :
1990
Institution :
University of KwaZulu Natal 

Qualification :
Leadership Development Program 
Date Completed :
2003
Institution :
Deloitte / University of KwaZulu Natal 

Qualification :
Matric 
Date Completed :
1986
Institution :
Fairvale School 

 
Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook and Project), Unique, SAP R/3, Q.Pac, Internet 








Additional Training and Skills
CCMA Case Presentation 
Disciplinary & Grievance Hearings Handling 
Industrial Relations Skills 
Targeted Selection & Train the Trainer 
Performance Management Strategy & O.D




Special Achievements 
Management Training in Germany; visited and worked in German companies 
Standard Bank Scholarship 
Dean of Faculty Commendation for Excellent Results – University of KwaZulu Natal 
Chairperson of SGB (School Governing Body) of Pandora Pre-primary school 
IPM (Institute of People Management) and SASLAW (Society of Labour Law) Membership members with number SMI009 and KZN654
Introduced 3 shift system in Maintenance section; Performance Management implemented for all salaried staff; Wage negotiations at Plant-level with mandate; and Canteen Cashless system introduced; Loans to employees was discontinued with communication and introduced “Savings Scheme” 

Jeffery Smith 
Resumé of Career to Date

Company Name :
Toyota South Africa (Pty) Ltd 
Type of Industry :
Motor Industry 
Period of Employment :
January 1998 – December 2015 
Position :
Senior HR Manager 
Promoted from 
HR Manager – Production 
Duties :


As Senior HR Manager at Toyota Boshoku 
(July 2008 – December 2015):

Head Count – 750 employees

Management of staff  – 19 HR staff including 5 direct reports comprising of the Administration and Payroll Manager, HRBP, Training and Development Manager and OHNP’s

Reports directly to CEO/President and indirectly to VP HR.

Strategic leading & managing 19 HR staff including 5 direct HR staff comprising the Administration & Payroll Manager, HRBP, Training & Development Manager and OHNP’s. 
HR service provision to x750 employees. 
Ensure budget control of R19 million for the HR department including the measurement of the operations budget vs business plan and strategy at the end of each month and analyze and act on variances immediately. 
Ensure SHE (Safety, Health and Environment) is maintained via safety rep meetings and shop floor patrol, ensuring the safety and wellness of all employees and legislative compliance including annual Safety Audit. 
Attend management weekly meetings and EXCO Quarterly meetings
In conjunction with EXCO support, ensure the implementation of the HR strategy across all functions within the organisation.
Coordinate and implement services, policies and programmes throughout the organisation. 
Provide input into business plans. 
Draft communication in writing and obtain Management approval, prior to issuing, especially notices and general communication to the workforce. 
Draft communiques and implement new company policies and procedures when changes occur and standardise these across business sections. 
Ensure plan is drafted in terms of “On boarding” and committing to line management a smooth Recruitment and Selection process. 
Draft adverts in conjunction with line managers and according to the HR specifications.  
Delegate the Induction of new employees but ensuring a plan is in place with date, time and duration of the respective induction topics and follow-up accordingly. 
Competency assessments including Psychometric Testing co-ordination and facilitation with the registered Psychometrist where applicable, to enhance talent management. 
Ensure and end-to-end service to enhance recruitment of future candidates with the necessary recommendations to line management. 
Ensure the necessary administration of new employees is 100% by checking documents in conjunction with the Administration Manager. 
Manage Employee Benefits and overtime payments and hours with the objective of complying with the BCEA and Bargaining Council requirements. 
Oversee HR administration and ensure tasks and queries are dealt with efficiently and timeously 
Ensure union meetings are held once a month to deal timeously with any matters arising and ensure relationship building.
Ensure all correspondence is in writing to the union and kept in the union file for safe keeping.
Liaise with two unions on behalf of hourly weekly paid and salaried staff with regards to industrial relations issues. 
Wage Negotiations done annually with salaried union after obtaining mandate from EXCO and hourly wage negotiations are done at national level
Advise and assist Line Managers and employees in terms of IR support regarding grievance handling, disciplinary cases and dispute resolution in terms of the CCMA and Bargaining Council including Conciliation and Arbitration matters.
Respond to all grievances lodged and resolve accordingly.
Assist with and provide IR support and advice to business units in a manner that minimises risk for the organisation. 
Manage, develop and implement frameworks, strategies and solutions related to HR within the organisation. 
Lead HR practices and objectives to ensure and improve performance, quality and productivity within the organisation. 
Develop and implement performance management, talent management, recruitment and recognition strategies. 
Ensure HRIS (information systems) such as SAP and Unique are up-to-date and utilised effectively especially in terms of reports. 
Reports submitted monthly to the management team and regional office (Europe) on safety, overtime, absenteeism, grievance and disciplinary cases, CCMA disputes and promotions. 
Facilitate strategic and operational plans, projects and programs for business and HR
Ensure management, group leaders and supervisors are trained and informed on HR policies, procedures and legislation. 
Act as change agent and advise management on change initiatives. 
Drive change initiatives within the business - collate information/stats for Manpower purposes, leave balances, disciplinary action, and overtime, BBBEE, turnover and training undertaken. 
Conduct annual TNA (Training Needs Analysis) and create a Training Plan in conjunction with the sustainable strategy of the business to facilitate the development of skills for current and future job requirements. 
Ensure submission of WSP and ATR Reports annually to the Department of Labour. 
Advise and consult with management, group leaders and supervisors on HR related issues to support business strategies.
Monitor employee morale and engage with employees to demonstrate awareness of staff issues through regular contact. 
Align employee capability with business strategies. 
Coordinated leadership and Succession Reviews by means of the Performance Management System which is co-ordinated by HR twice a year.
Responsible for the effective coordination of the performance management system, by ensuring new managers are trained correctly, in terms of the review of performance of employees, meeting deadline submission dates and aligning the employee performance score sheets to the requisite payment in terms of performance with Payroll and Finance. 
Identify key talent with Line Managers and put in place a Talent Management Programme. 
Maintain Employment Equity process, including targets, database, statistics and reporting. 
Involved in continuous improvement of Employment Equity. 
Implement and monitor compliance to company BBBEE strategy including legislative changes thereto and improving the level score in terms of Certification.


As HR Manager – Toyota SA Motors 
(January 1998 – June 2008):
Provided HR Support to 1750 staff/employees in a unionized environment.
Managed the recruitment and selection process. 
Advised Line Managers on interview protocol and procedures and made recommendations accordingly. 
OD (Organisational Development in terms of problem-solving and culture orientation. 
Developed and customized training interventions to address the strategic objectives and training needs of the business. 
Partner with service providers and training institutions in order to facilitate the development of high-level leadership and other programmes.
Responsible for planning based on Strategy and Business plans.  
Developed and recommended policies and procedures to govern acceptable industrial relations, human resources and training and development matters and that meet legislative requirements. Developed budgets to cover costs of these exercises. 
Stay abreast of new manpower, industrial relations, compensation research, risk, legal services and products.  
Researched business needs and supply new approaches and solutions. 
Ensured development of an acceptable business culture. 
Strategic planning and management of Labour Relations issues relating to unionized manufacturing area. 
Managed the disciplinary and grievance process including referrals to the CCMA. 
Representative for the company at CCMA. 
Negotiated and liaised with the union - Relationship building with unions on labour relation issues.
Provide guidance to Line Management on all labour issues. 
Maintained good IR and HR practices.  
Ensured all current labour related legislation is adhered to. 
Acted as Change Agent and advised management on change initiatives.
Managed and directed the administration and payroll department in terms of service delivery, improvements and computerization of systems. 
Directing, coaching, mentoring and managing the activities of HR Consultants and admin-payroll department.
Reason for Leaving :
Reached a ceiling within the company after being with them for so many years, so decided to start up own business venture as a new challenge.  However, it is not proving to be financially viable.


Company Name :
Nestle (SA) – Unionised (FAWU)
Type of Industry :
Confectionery / FMCG 
Period of Employment :
August 1993 – December 1997
Position :
Head of Human Resources
Duties :


Providing HR strategic input into the business strategy development. 
Coordinated and managed the induction of new employees 
Managed the recruitment and selection process. 
Advised Line Managers on interview protocol and procedures and made recommendations accordingly. 
Developed HR Business Plan and identify opportunities for HR interventions 
Developed and reviewed HR policies for efficiency and effectiveness purposes.
Provided a one stop shop for HR advice to Line Management on all HR matters. 
Identification of HR needs and sourcing of talent. 
Placement and retention of talent.
Identification of training and development needs and managing the initiatives to bridge the gap. 
Facilitated the development of skills plans in line with company needs and legislation. 
Managing re-engineering processes. 
Developed and implemented change interventions. 
Created a culture of learning and development of initiatives to sustain the culture. 
Culture change initiative implementation. 
Developed career pathing concepts and principles including the implementation thereof.
Identified and developed recognition schemes.
Implemented the Performance Management System.
Implemented succession and replacement planning initiatives. 
Sourced and implemented the job evaluation system. 
Partook in job profiling exercises. 
Provide Labour Relations advice on grievances, disciplinary cases including CCMA. 
Provide mentoring, coaching services to the Management team including employees.
Reason for Leaving :
Headhunted by Toyota





















MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 7
	Candidate Name 	|	Jeffery Smith  XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Tracy Redfern 





