
“All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment”
Position Applied For:
HR Generalist
Candidate Name:
Nazia Khan
MPC Consultant Name:
Elmarie Muhl
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(031) 562 8001 
Date Referred:
22/11/2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Khan
First Names :
Nazia
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English,
EE/AA Status :
EE / Indian Female
Availability :
Immediate

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Grindrod Group (Shared Services)
Talent / Reward Specialist (Training & Development)
Promoted from:
HR Services Manager (HR) : Organization Manager (SAP);

HR Generalist 
HR Officer
Sep 2015 to Aug 2016


Jan 2014 to Aug 2015


2011 to 2013
Jan 2009 to Dec 2011
CTI
Placements Consultant
Jun 2008 to Dec 2008
Pioneer Food
HR Officer
Jun 2007 to May 2008
BHP Billiton
Graduate Human Resource Development Recruitment, Talent Management
Jun 2006 to Dec 2006
Siemens Ltd
Recruitment Administrator, HR Development, Team Counselling  (Contract)
Jun 2005 to Jan 2006


Academic History

Qualification :
Bachelor of Commerce (B COM)
Major:
Human Resource Management
Date Completed :
2005
Institution :
University of KwaZulu Natal, (Westville Campus)


Qualification :
Matric 
(Certificate of Complete Exemption)
Date Completed :
2001
Institution :
Centenary Secondary 













Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook & MS Project) & Internet
SAP Organizational Management
SAP ESS/MSS.


































Nazia Khan
Resumé of Career to Date
Nazia is currently doing HR Consulting while seeking employment.

Company Name :
Grindrod Group (Shared Services)
Type of Industry :
Shared Services
Period of Employment :
January 2009 to August 2016
Position :
Talent / Reward Specialist (Training & Development)
Promoted from:
HR Services Manager (HR) : Organization Manager (SAP);
HR Generalist / HR Officer
Duties :


Talent / Reward Specialist (Training & Development)
(September 2015 to August 2016)
Key Responsibilities:

Training and Development:
Manage all levels of training requirements. From Management programs through to graduate training.
Identify fit for purpose training material as well as service providers.
Plan, organize and administrate training programs.
Review and evaluate all training interventions.
Manage all training records and training material.
Constant engagement with Service Providers in order to track progress of Learners.
Design training needs analysis template in line with SETA Requirements.
Align to BBBEE requirements.
Design template for Data consolidation in line with SETA requirements.
Consolidation of WSP / ATR for the GSA submission.
Oversee applications for Discretionary Grants.
Monitoring of SDL Rebates from the SETA. 
Liaise with SETA, keep abreast of any changes to Regulations.
Analyze Training Budget and monitor spend against budgets.
Identify training needs upon audit of PDP or Training needs analysis consol.
Identify programs to address Training needs.
Monitor progress made on WSP.
Identify value adding service providers.
Provide statistical reporting and analysis of training, metrics etc… for annual report purposes.



BBBEE
Strategic Goal/ Target setting in order to meet the desired Level Accreditation.
Upskilling of all HRBP’s within Grindrod Group on the new BBBEE code.
Provided access to the BBBEE App.
Train users on functionality of the App.
Train HRBP’s on completion of schedule requirements.
Train HRBP’s on methods to maximize on points.
Conducted Gap analysis.
Completion of Schedules & Consolidation for Grindrod South Africa.
Interrogation, analysis and auditing of all input.
Regular Monitoring of progress against set targets.
Ensure all relevant documentation is kept updated to support the audit requirements.
Identify service providers & learning programs for the training element.
New hire requirements - send to HRBP’s.
Monitor utilisation of the BBBEE App.
Quarterly consolidation of GSA - targets vs actuals.
Develop / Monitor learner tracking tool.

Talent Acquisition:
Graduate program (end to end talent acquisition process).
Management of Program.
Resourcing.
Placements. 
Induction.
Quarterly meeting with Graduates - monitoring progress.

Reporting:
Statistical Group reporting on Reward & Talent Management.
Quarterly reporting on statistical data for the Group.
Annual Report Reward & Talent.

Industrial Relations/ Employee Relations:
Counsel Employees.
Attend to all staff issues / problems.
Provide guidance to Staff and Line Managers on Performance Management.

Performance Management:
Ensure reviews are conducted by Line Managers.
Provide support on compilation of KPIS.
Identify star performers - and highlight to business with regards to retention initiatives for key roles.

Job Evaluation 
Drafting job profiles with all levels of management. 
Defining purpose of roles.
Identifying KPA' and objectives to be achieved.
Establish appropriate levels of 
Competencies.
Partake in job grading of roles, 
Utilising the deloitte task grading system.

HR systems/processes 
Implementation.
Sap Organisational management.

HR Services Manager (HR) : Organization Manager (SAP)
(January 2014 to August 2015)
Key Responsibilities:

Deliver HR Management Reporting-SAP OM:
Act as custodian of all types of HR OM Reporting across the business.
Engage Executives, Senior Management and Operational Managers to design requirements for reporting.
Design standard reports and management report based on the requirements provided.
Provide training to all levels of management on the use of standard reports, etc.

Customer Service:
Customer relationship management, quality service delivery.
Maintain professionalism, consistency, excellent content knowledge.
Accessible and user friendly OM structure.
Continuous improvement, accuracy and efficiencies.

Manage People:
Manage the performances of the OM Team. 
Create individual development plans (skills training and development) for each member of the team and track progress against agreed developmental objectives.
Ensure that knowledge is transferred and shared across the Team Members.

High level activities (Design, Capture, Report, Maintain, Report)

Design:
Discuss and influence the design of the current Grindrod Organisational Structure with Line Managers and the HR Business Partners (master organisational structure plan).
Discuss and influence any changes (delimitations, new structures from acquisitions & mergers) to the current Grindrod Organisational Structure.
Minute all decisions taken by Grindrod Executives and Line Managers on proposed changes to the existing structure and produce organisational structure plans or scenarios for these.
Consult with Line Managers and HR Business Partners on their approved manpower budgets and the subsequent impact on their current organisational structures.
Ensure that governance standards for organisational structure changes are developed and communicated, as well as put measures in place to ensure compliance.

Capture:
Capture the approved Grindrod Organisational Structure into SAP.
Ensure that any proposed changes to the current organisational structure is discussed and approved via the governance process.
Ensure that all changes - as approved - are made to the current organizational Structure and test in SAP.

Report:
Provide views on the current organisational structure via service delivery channels such as Manager Self Service (MSS), or standard reports from SAP, or reports from NIKISA / Visio.
Provide reporting services to clients such as Executives, HR Teams, Senior Management, 
Line Managers, and Employees using the above-mentioned tools / channels.

Maintain:
Ensure that all changes to Organisational Units, Reporting Structure, Authorisation / Decisions / Workflow Framework, Jobs, Positions, Relationships, Tasks, Work Centres, Qualifications, Vacancies and Profiles are effected and captured in SAP using the pre-determined governance process.
Plan and execute regular maintenance activities in order to ensure that the current organisational structure is properly maintained.
Test all maintenance actions taken.

Report:
Prepare regular reports to reflect changes and maintenance actions taken to update the current organisational structure.

Job Profiling:
Maintain job catalog.


HR Generalist 
(2011 to 2013)
Responsibilities

BBBEE:
Strategy in terms of maintaining and improving scores.
Completed verification manual (Ownership, Management Control, Employment Equity and Skills Development elements).
Gathered evidence against sampled data.
Train HR Officers and business on BEE.

Skills Development:
Skills Development record compilation.
Preparation and online submission of Workplace Skills Plan and Annual Training Report to SETA.
Preparation and submission of Quarterly Report to SETA for Mandatory Grants.
Identify sources for training through preferred suppliers.
Establish potential maximum rebate against levies paid versus actual amount refunded.

Industrial relations/ Employee Relations:
Counsel Employees.
Attend to all staff issues / problems.
Performance management meetings.
Conduct disciplinary hearings.

Employee self service:
First point of contact for business.
Provide training to staff on ESS System.

Job Evaluation 
Drafting job profiles with all levels of management. 
Defining purpose of roles.
Identifying KPA' and objectives to be achieved.
Establish appropriate levels of 
Competencies.
Partake in job grading of roles, 
Utilising the deloitte task grading system.

Talent Acquisition process:
Advertising.
Internal eRecruitment system & Pnet.
Liaising with preferred Agencies.
Shortlisting.
Interviewing.
Guide selection process.
Referencing and background checks (Telephonic & LexisNexis).
Arranging Psychometric assessments.
Generating reports for Personality Profile Assessments.
Co-ordinate Appointment process -
Regretting of unsuccessful Candidates.
Drawing up dummy payslips.
Conduct Exit Interviews with Leavers.

Job Descriptions and Grading:
Developing and maintaining Job Descriptions - ensuring job grades are in line with job description.
Work with external Consultant and Line Manages on job grading.

Wellness: 
Compile monthly stats for Employee Wellness Program (ICAS).
Arrange wellness days.
Ensure that HR-related requirements in terms of Policies and Procedures are adhered to.

SAP Organisational Management:
Creating, modifying & initiating movements of positions and org units within SAP for payroll processing.
Developing and Maintaining Org Structures and Positions for ESS and MSS.

Employment Equity:
Employment Equity compilation and online reporting to DOL.
Work closely with Management to keep on top of EE targets.
Head committee meetings.

Performance Management:
Supporting and coordinating performance management process.
Ensure that learning and development plans are addressed and necessary training is arranged.
Ensure that Managers are on track with setting KPA’s and reviewing them.

A member of the HR STEERING Committee for the Grindrod Group, representing the Trading Division.

Assisting the Group HR Manager with annual reports and adhoc duties.

Proficient with MS Word, Excel, Outlook, SAP Organisational management, SAP ESS/MSS

Started as HR Officer
(January 2009 to December 2011)
Reason for Leaving :
Company undergoing massive re-structure, possible retrenchment. Resigned to seek alternate employment.


Company Name :
CTI
Type of Industry :
Educational
Period of Employment :
June 2008 to December 2008
Position :
Placements Consultant
Duties :


HR generalist.
Employment agreements.
Induction, 
Stats Reports.
Recruitment.
Advertising.
Administration.
Performance appraisals.
Talent Management.
Reason for Leaving :
Better Opportunity 







Company Name :
Pioneer Food
Type of Industry :
Manufacturing / F.M.C.G.
Period of Employment :
June 2007 to May 2008
Position :
HR Officer
Duties :


Payroll.
Recruitment.
EE reports.
HR monthly Reports. 
WSP Reports.
Induction.
Employee counselling.
Disciplinary Hearings.
Excel reports.
Administration of Provident Fund, Funeral Scheme.
Performance Management Time Sheets.
Consulting with staff regarding policy.
Reason for Leaving :
Company based in Stanger and she resides In Durban.


Company Name :
BHP Billiton
Type of Industry :
Petroleum 
Period of Employment :
June 2006 to December 2006
Position :
Graduate Human Resource Development Recruitment, Talent Management
Duties :


IR.
Performance management.
Performance appraisals.
Performance Management. 
Consulting with staff regarding policy.
Reason for Leaving :
Family opened business in Durban / Relocated






Company Name :
Siemens Ltd
Type of Industry :
Telecommunications
Period of Employment :
June 2005 to January 2006
Position :
Recruitment Administrator, HR Development, Team Counselling  (Contract)
Duties :


Graduate Recruitment Assistant.
Administering of MIE and reference checks.
Call screening scheduling of interviews.
Reason for Leaving :
Contract completed










MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 10
	Candidate Name 	|	Nazia Khan XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Natasha Hurst





