
“All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment”
Position Applied For:
 FORMTEXT Enter Position Here
Candidate Name:
Leganthree Reddy
MPC Consultant Name:
Tracy Redfern
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(031) 562 8001 
Date Referred:
 FORMTEXT Enter Date Here

Personal Details
Surname :
Reddy
First Names :
Leganthree  (Known as Legan)
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English & Afrikaans
EE/AA Status :
EE / Female
Availability :
01 June 2016

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Nor Paper
Team Administrator - Nor KZN
Jul 2011 to May 2016
Bytes Document Solutions



Bytes Document Solution -Sappi Tugela
XGS Team Administrator - KZN
Promoted from:
Work Controller;
Help Desk Facilitator
July 2007 to Jun 2011


July 2006 to Jun 2007
Jan 2002 to Jun 2006


Academic History


Qualification :
Matric / Grade 12 - Exemption 
Date Completed :
2000
Institution :
Shakaskraal Secondary School


Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office (Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Outlook & MS Project) & Internet
























Leganthree Reddy
Resumé of Career to Date

Company Name :
Nor Paper
Bytes Document Solutions - Nor Paper, Riverhorse Valley, Durban, 
Bytes Document Solutions
Bytes Document Solution -Sappi Tugela
Type of Industry :
Paper Supplies
Period of Employment :
July2011 to May 2016
Position :
Team Administrator - Nor KZN
Duties :


Nor Paper
Team Administrator - Nor KZN
(July 2011 to May 2016)
Key Responsibilities:
General marketing initiatives for the NOR Paper Department.
Procurement Function
          Replenishment of Floor Stocks;
          Marketing / Specials for re-sale; 
          Creating Purchase Orders.
Comparison of pricing with current supplier to leverage for better pricing.
Setting up processes to streamline workflows in order to facilitate quick turnaround deliveries to customers.
Resolving Warehousing and Inventory issues.
Petty Cash.
Helping the Sales Representatives to implement their market strategy.
To accurately and timeously complete and process all documentation and administration, monthly / daily reports.
Assist as a back-up on order capturing and sales functions.
Assisted Debtors with statements / invoices and debt collections.
Submission of credit application / credit limit increases to Bids and Tenders.
To provide national support for all Bids and Tenders, RFI’s and Vendor Assessment Questionnaires and to ensure that timeous submission is planned.


Bytes Document Solutions
XGS Team Administrator - KZN
(July 2007 to June 2011)
Key Responsibilities:
Assist Sales revenue growth and assist the Sales Team to achieve maximum productivity by supporting efforts to deliver total customer satisfaction.
To enable a single point of contact between the customers and the XGS Sales, Admin and Technical Departments.
To accurately and timeously complete and process all documentation and administration.
Prepare monthly reports and assist with meter read collection and billing data.
Deal with incoming calls promptly and efficiently in order to satisfy customer needs.
Responsibility for the issuing and receipt of Consumables and spares.
To keep abreast of the Management and Sales Team whereabouts at all times.
(LATERIAL MOVE TO NOR PAPERS)


Bytes Document Solutions
Work Controller
(July 2006 to June 2007)
Key Responsibilities:
Receive, log and distribute calls via tracking system ORACLE.
Clearing of calls.
Place all consumable and toner orders for multiple organizations via tracking system ORACLE. 
Offer first line support to end users.
Perform all filing and record keeping.
End user queries.
Customer Satisfaction.
Deputize for Docucare Specialist when required.
(LATERAL MOVE)


Bytes Document Solution - Sappi Tugela
Help Desk Facilitator
(January 2002 to June 2006)
Key Responsibilities:
Receive, log and distribute calls via tracking system HEAT.
Offer first line support to end users.
          Remote desktop connection via proxy host (Dameware and VNC).;
          Installation of printing software.
Perform all filing and record keeping.
Data Capturing.
Analyze reporting software to create monthly usage reports which included:
          Excel Spreadsheets;
          Billing Memo;
          Invoicing.
Customer Satisfaction.
Deputize for Docucare Specialist when required.
Ordering of Printer consumables is HP, Lexmark, Samsung, Tally and Epson for the re-sale to Sappi End Users.
Stock Control.


Additional Services offered to Sappi Tugela while position held as a Help Desk Facilitator: Assisted at I.T Help Desk
Key Responsibilities:
Receive, log and distribute calls (IT and SAP related).
Offer first line support.
          Assisting with network access application;
          Assisting users with queries.
Act as a message center.
Perform all record keeping (Track-It and Heat).
Granting users access to Internet Café’.
(LOST SAPPI CONTRACT / LATERAL MOVE TO ANOTHER DIVISION)
Reason for Leaving :
Branch closing down/Retrenchment











MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 5
	Candidate Name 	|	Leganthree Reddy XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Tracy Redfern





