
“All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment”
Position Applied For:
Marketing & Communications Officer
Candidate Name:
Merethe Gooding 
MPC Consultant Name:
Elmarie Muhl
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(031) 562 8001 
Date Referred:
09/11/2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Gooding 
First Names :
Merethe 
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English and Afrikaans 
EE/AA Status :
None (White female) 
Availability :
One week 

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Self-Employed
Marketing & Events Consultant
Feb 2015 to Present
Altech Multimedia (Pty) Ltd 
Marketing and Events Coordinator 
2004 to Jan 2015
Teljoy Cellular Services 
Key Accounts Executive 
1997 to 2000 

Academic History
Qualification :
Diploma – Marketing Management 
Date Completed :
2012
Institution :
The Independent Institute of Education 

Qualification :
Matric 
Date Completed :
1986
Institution :
Duneside High School (Namibia) 
 
Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook, MS Project , Adobe Photoshop & Adobe Illustrator


Additional Training and Skills
Proofreading & copy editing certificate – Universal Class Inc.
Press Release Writing course – The On-Line Writers College
Certificate – Business to Business Marketing – UNISA 2006  
Certificate – Course in Public Relations – UNISA 2004 
Higher Certificate – Commercial Catering – ML Sultan Hotel School 1988


SHORT COURSES 

Bytes Technology Project Management Principles and Practices 

Vega Brand Communication School – The A to Z of Branding Short Course 

 Shaw Academy - Diploma in Social Media Marketing (International on-line course) 

Shaw Academy Diploma in Digital Marketing (International on-line course) 

Shaw Academy Diploma in the Foundations of Graphic Design 



Merethe Gooding 
Resumé of Career to Date
Company Name :
Self-Employed
Type of Industry :
Marketing
Period of Employment :
February 2015 to Present
Position :
Marketing & Events Consultant
Duties :


Provide marketing support to various clients.
Design and develop marketing literature, ensuring valid, current and accurate content. This includes brochures, company presentations, presentation templates, promotional materials.
Co-Ordinate functions from start to finish.
Provided a Proofreading & Copyediting service
Reason for Leaving :
Would like to re- enter corporate / Looking for stability.


Company Name :
Altech Multimedia (Pty) Ltd 
Type of Industry :
Manufacturing
Period of Employment :
2004 to January 2015 
Position :
Marketing and Events Coordinator 
Duties :


Marketing Management:
Design and develop marketing literature, ensuring valid, current and accurate content. 
This includes brochures, company presentation templates and promotional materials. 
Responsible for implementing corporate communication plan and strategy for uniformity in message, including templates, logo usage and representation of the brand. 
Established websites, including managing the content on the sites to ensure the content is relevant and fresh, and that usage of the websites is tracked and reported on monthly. 
Planning and concept development and execution of print and media campaigns. 

Event Management:
Identify and manage all local and international trade shows from inception to conclusion, including concept formulation, budget approval and management, supplier / contractor management, management of travel and logistics. 
Manage and coordinate hospitality events for customers in the region, including liaising with event management companies and other suppliers, branding the event, organising the guest list and any other organisation required for a successful event. 
Identify and manage participation in suitable industry competitions and events (for instance speaking slots at events). 
Provide pre-event planner and post-event feedback report. 
Responsible for corporate gifts and clothing. 
Manage team building activities. 
Responsible for the development of the internal electronic company newsletter. 
Develop a network of reliable suppliers and manage relationships. 

Budget Control & Administration: 
Capture service provider invoices on Syspro system and monitor invoice approval on Syspro to ensure payment is made within required timeframe. 
Provide input and responsible for the marketing budget and track expenses against budget to ensure spend is kept within budget. 
Assist in design, marketing and consolidating material for tender documents. 

Legal & Operations Secretary:
Drafting basic correspondence on behalf of Chief Operations Office and Commercial and Legal Director. 
Typing of complex legal documents and contracts, technical proposals, specifications, quotations and presentations. 
Maintenance, filing and controlling of all legal and commercial documents. 
Communicating, liaising and facilitating internally and externally. 
Coordinating and scheduling of meetings. 
Internal and external clients / customers liaison – local and international. 
Reason for Leaving :
Retrenched

Company Name :
Teljoy Cellular Services 
Type of Industry :
Telecommunication
Period of Employment :
1997 to 2000 
Position :
Key Accounts Executive 
Duties :


Established the needs of our key accounts being the Bidvest Group, Unilever Group, Sanlam, Old Mutual and ABSA. 
Developed and grew our existing accounts. 
Led a cross – functional team with representatives from customer services and accounts so that the Key Accounts received timely and effective support regarding any issue. 
Acted as a liaison between Teljoy and the Key Account for all issues. 
Managed all product launches and coordinated new product training. 
Attended trade shows to review new products on the market. 
Reason for Leaving :
Better Opportunity










MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2
	Candidate Name 	|	Merethe Gooding XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Natasha Hurst





