Job Title                                Hospitality Systems Consultant
 
Salary:                                   R174 000
 
 
Job Description
e Hospitality Systems Consultant is required to install, maintain and support the products assigned to him/her employees and management.
 
             Meet with the Project Manager before commencement of an installation to be briefed on any special requirements and to collect all required documentation (airline tickets, visas, pre-installation packs, sign-off documents, licensing & support agreements, etc…).
             Employees in branches outside Johannesburg are to hold a telephonic meeting with the Project Manager, and further communicate with the Project Manager via electronic mail or fax.
             Travel to clients’ sites.
             Install the assigned products to the requirements and satisfaction of the client and Management.
             If assigned to be Project Leader, the Software Technician will co-ordinate all aspects of the installation as required.
             The HSC will ensure that, to the best of his/her ability, the project will be completed within schedule.
             Conduct an exit meeting with the client, during which the sign-off documentation is completed.
             Be able to liaise with clients and manage the installation, training, refresher training, site visit or any other dealings that the company deems fit.
             Complete all sign off documentation and time sheets before leaving site.
             The HSC will not leave site if any outstanding issues are not resolved without explicit permission from Management.
             The HSC will arrange a handover meeting with the project manager upon returning from a client’s site, during which the project manager will be briefed on all aspects of the installation.
             The HSC will bring a copy of the clients’ latest database back to the office.  All client databases are to be stored on CD in the customer’s file.
             Hand in all dockets with payment the next day to the administration department. The HSC is also responsible for collection of payment of all unpaid dockets.
             Any major changes onsite to be communicated to the client in writing.
             Ensure a signed delivery note is completed on delivery of any system component.
             Train client, management & staff in accordance with published training standards.
             Produce training materials as required from time to time.
             To ensure that the pricelist for repairs/Changes are adhered to and that all monies collected are remitted
             To replace/repair/do changes to the best interest of the client and company
             The HSC presents training courses to other  Consultants as required.
             Each HSC is required to support the products assigned to him/her.
             Each HSC is required to work the 24hr help desk from time to time. 
             All support calls are to be logged on the in-house call logging system.
             HSC’s to maintain a test environment on their laptop computer.
             Test and troubleshoot new versions prior to release.
 
Skills Required
                Matric / Grade 12 / Equivalent
             Minimum 5 – 7 years management experience within Restaurant industry
             Micros System knowledge essential
             Knowledge of the Opera System essential
             Must be available on 24 Hour standby from time to time
             Must be available for duty on the help desk from time to time
             Able to travel
             Valid driver’s license
             Reliable vehicle

