
CONFIDENTIALITY CLAUSE:  All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment
Position Applied For:
Administrator
Candidate Name:
Ardiela Dramat
MPC Consultant Name:
Colleen Stevenson
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(021) 552 8048
Date Referred:
13 May 2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Dramat
First Names :
Ardiela
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English, 
EE/AA Status :
Female
Availability :
30 days negotiable
Current Salary :
R 22 000
Expected Salary :
R 22 000 plus benefits

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
ATN Group (Pty)Ltd
Admin / Payroll Manager
1 Oct - date
NTI Security Solution (Pty)Ltd
Operations Manager
Nov 2009 – Sept 2014
TANK Industries (Pty)Ltd
Buyer
Sept 2001 – July 2008

Academic History

Qualification :
Matric
Date Completed :
1990
Institution :
Cedar High School
 
Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office



Additional Training and Skills
Accounting Administration – Institute – CAD College
Key Principles of Tendering – Institute – TaranisCo
HR Training Course – Institute – Wecbof
Psychology of Customer Service – Institute – Dr Brian Jude
Operations Management – Institute – UCT/Get Smarter
Time Management – ParEquity
Sage Pastel Payroll & HR – Pastel Training Centre

Ardiela Dramat
Resumé of Career to Date
Company Name :
ATN Group (Pty) Ltd
Type of Industry :
Engineering 
Period of Employment :
October 2014 - date
Position :
Admin/ Payroll Manager
Duties :


Maintains payroll information by designing systems; data entry management on Pastel,
Directing the collection, calculation, and entering of data.
Updates payroll records in exemptions, deductions, and job titles, and departmental changes.
Pays employees by directing the production and issuance of payslips & electronic transfers to bank accounts.
Prepares reports by compiling summaries of earnings, deductions & attendance.
Balances the payroll accounts by resolving payroll discrepancies.
Provides payroll information by answering questions and requests.
Maintains payroll guidelines and processes by writing and updating policies and procedures.
Maintains employee confidence and protects payroll operations by keeping information 
confidential.
People management & maintains payroll staff by recruiting, selecting, orienting, and training employees.
Maintains payroll staff job results by counselling and disciplining employees; planning,
monitoring, and appraising job results.
Manage and guarantee weekly disbursement of multi-state payroll, including garnishments and union fees.
Ensure the processing of new hires, temporary workers, transfers, promotions and
terminations is accurate and timely.
Supervise & manage payroll staff, including cleaning staff.		
Critically review and analyze current payroll, benefits and tax procedures in order to 
recommend and implement changes leading to best-practice operations.
Communicate actively with HR, Finance and Site staff to review cross-departmental
impacts and reconcile data sharing.
Liaise with HR staff regarding new appointments, terminations and other relevant matters.
Ensure systems are set-up and updated to reflect our current employee base on both 
Salaries & Wages.
Weekly preparation of relevant management reports. 
Monitoring costs & budgets vs actual & highlighting anything over budget.	
Managing time and attendance of office and site staff.	
Actively monitors cost control on wages & salaries.	
Scrutinize & audit all information received for wages and salaries.
Issue & adhoc assistance on information for labour reports for sites.
Contribute in assisting all staff challenges and resolving situations effectively.
Training & mentoring of interns.			
Managing the Office refreshments, cleaning products and stationery requirements.
Promoting the mission statement and living the company values.
Events planning and executing.
Reason for Leaving :
Company is retrenching and does not feel stable

Company Name :
NTI Security Solutions (Pty) Ltd
Type of Industry :
Security
Period of Employment :
November 2009 – September 2014
Position :
Operations Manager
Duties :


Management
Employees
Systems & procedures
Administration
Cash Flow & Budgets
Human Resources
Project Management
Lean Management
Procurement
Customer Service
Creditors
Debtors
Sub-Contractors
Compliance Regulations; BEE, CIDB, Health & Safety, etc.
Health & Safety
BEE Renewals & Maintaining Ratings
Tenders
Sales
Training
Accurate Reporting
Proposals, Costing Estimates, Quotes & After costings 
Logging all enquiries onto a live web based CRM system – Pulse
Implementation & Follow ups from when the enquiry is logged to scope of work executed.
Obtain site specifications from Technical Manager and Sales staff for cost estimates. 
Request quotes for products in order to complete Cost Estimates/ Quotes/ Proposals.
Prepare accurate Cost Estimates/ Quotations/ Proposals.
Prepare After Costing as Projects progresses.
Follow up on Quotations/ Proposals submitted to clients.
Updating CRM – Pulse System to draw Reports for Directors and CEO.
Tenders
Manage all Tender notifications and all procedures for Tenders until submission
Ensuring compulsory site meetings are attended and Tender documents are collected. 
Prepare necessary documents required for Tender submission.
Preparation of Cost Estimates and meeting the deadlines.
Ensure all compliance documents are kept updated for Tender submissions.
Daily checks for new tenders on Trade world, online and weekly Newspapers.
Tendering weekly for Department of Public Works, Western Cape Government, Department of Health, City of Cape Town, Pareto, SAP, etc.
Procurement
Placing & negotiating of products both hardware & software at best price and terms.
Arrange and ensure Delivery or Collection of goods to site when required.
Ensure all suppliers meet the eta on procurement schedule of projects. 
Maintaining BEE procurement policy to uphold the company BEE ratings. 
Manage relationships with suppliers to maintain efficiency of support and faster response on pricing required. 
Enquiries / Requests
Arrange prompt Site visit assessments & Call Outs by Technicians or Sub Contractors if required by Client
Customer Sales Administration
Secure customer orders.
Prepare and send off OA once order is received.
Effective customer communication while job in progress.
Obtain signed Completion certificate from Senior Technician.
Maintain complaints register.
Maintain callout register.
Arrange & ensure that scope of work invoiced on completion.
Prepare monthly Progress claims and arrange for invoicing.
Maintain Customer & Supplier Database.
Efficiency of Sales team.
Manage & issue various sites; Internet Voucher System.
Contract Planning & Schedules
Plan & Schedule of new confirmed orders & Call Outs Daily.
Maintenance Contracts: Ensure work correctly scheduled and executed.
Issuing job cards to technical teams.
Manage technical teams reports daily on works completed or in progress and update clients accordingly.
Implementing a project plan, procurement schedule and technical site surveys for all new projects.
Ensuring project meets the deadline ahead of time to avoid penalties.
Maintaining all Health and Safety requirements on sites.
Communicating any changes or updates of projects or any other works to the clients.
Creditors Administration
Follow up orders placed for timeous delivery.
Manage back orders.
Ensure correct documentation (order/delivery note/invoice/statement).
Reconcile Creditor statements and prepare for payment.
Resolve any discrepancies.
Opening of new Creditor accounts.
Maintain Creditor database.
Ensure updated pricelist are obtained.
Debtors Administration
Ensure invoicing takes place from call outs & orders received.
Ensure all relevant documentation attached for processing on Pastel.
Manage Debtors Collection.
Timesheet Administration
Obtain signed weekly timesheets from technical teams.
Maintain staff attendance, punctuality & absenteeism records.
Prepare monthly spreadsheet for Finance Department.
Arrange & preparation of payments for casuals and subcontractors. 
Product & Tools Control
Keep record of Product Stock & Tools.
Ensure control & return of unused stock for credit.
Maintain asset register.
Reporting
Prepare necessary reports as per company systems & procedures requirements. 
Accurate reporting; Weekly Work Schedule, Monthly Financial Forecast, Technical Efficiency Report and Weekly Sales Report to Directors, Shareholders and CEO.
Administration of Vehicles 
Obtain weekly vehicle reports from Drivers and arrange for vehicle checks.
Attend to problems listed and arrange for repairs/servicing
Maintain vehicle files
Implementation of Marketing Plan
Prepare & maintain Hotlist of clients and report weekly to Directors and CEO
Human Resources
Drawing up employment contracts
Counselling
Conflict Management
KPA’s
Staff Assessments
Recruitment 
Arrange ongoing training for technical staff 
Keep personnel files updated
Training of New Staff on Systems, Procedures & Pulse System.
Ensure technical teams and subcontractors are compliant on statutory requirements. 
Support
To Directors, Technical Manager, Technical Teams and Sales Executives.
Manage Sub Contractors
Reason for Leaving :
Head hunted


Company Name :
TANK Industries (Pty) Ltd
Type of Industry :
Telecommunications
Period of Employment :
September 2001 – July 2008
Position :
Buyer
Duties :


Primary responsibility: Purchasing of all products for three branches. 
Financial system used to manage all local and international product orders
Management and ownership of all processes, both system based and manual
Placing orders, responsible for Indents & all documents related thereof.
Working closely with accounts department with regards to documents & prepayments 
Responsible for both local & international courier arrangements.
Maintain correspondence with full client base to ensure local and international shipments are despatched and received as required
Sourcing of suppliers both locally & internationally.
Negotiating, customer service & monitoring supplier performance.
Monitoring backorder report.
Tank Industries holds tender contracts with multiple parastatals, including Eskom, Telkom, and various large municipalities throughout South Africa.
Details of processes and workflow can be discussed if required
 Stores Manager
Managing & ensuring maintenance of stores.
Issuing job cards to relevant departments.
Management of stock levels
Responsible for stores assistants.
Follow up of Good received notes.
Arrange Courier collections and deliveries.
Managing all goods are correctly packaged for local and overseas freight
Accounting administrator
Primary responsibility: Processing and reconciling payments on Accpac and Cashbook
Ensure all incoming payments are applied to the relevant entries on Accpac
Preparing invoices for local and international orders
Reconciling cashbook to the bank statements both local & foreign accounts.
Costing & conversions of foreign currencies (Imports) to local currencies.
 Senior Data Processing Clerk
Primary Responsibility: Capturing financial data onto various systems
Capturing financial data onto multiple databases and spreadsheets
Invoicing, Cash sales, Stock Transfers, Assemblies, Jobcard Requisitions, Goods received/ returned, Stock adjustments.
Dealing with stock related queries.
Management of bill of materials and requisitions for stock issues
Capturing order information onto Accpac
Management and capturing of products on Accpac
Sales support for Durban and Johannesburg branches
Coordinating courier services
Training of staff.
Responsible for weekly order reports.
Reconciling stocktaking queries.
Reason for Leaving :
Went on maternity and then took some time off











MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2
	Candidate Name 	|	Ardiela Dramat XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Colleen Stevenson (021) 552 8048





