
All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment”
Position Applied For:
Bookkeeper
Candidate Name:
Sandiswe Makhalima
MPC Consultant Name:
Joanne Bell
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
021 552 8048
Date Referred:
January 2015

Personal Details
Surname :
Makhalima
First Names :
Sandiswe
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
English and Xhosa
EE/AA Status :
Black female
Availability :
4 weeks 

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Deloitte
Assistant Accountant
Jun 2013 - date
Elan Rabinowitz & Associates
Accounting Clerk
Oct 2009 – May 2013


Candidate Summary

AA candidate Sandisiwe completed her Bachelor of Technology Degree in Taxation. She has over four (4) years working experience. She is currently on a contract with one of the Big Four, Deloittes, as an Assistant Accountant. She describes herself as dedicated and prides herself in her work delivery. Her work is always up to standard and she says she handles volume well. She is looking for a position where she can get involved and tackle challenging projects. 
Sandiswe is a well – spoken, presentable young woman.


Academic History
Qualification :
B Tech - Taxation
Date Completed :
2010
Institution :
Cape Peninsula University of Technology

Qualification :
Matric
Date Completed :
2006
Institution :
Headlines Private College
 
Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Office Suite, Pastel, Accfin, SAP (basic)


Additional Training and Skills
2013, Centre ERP in Africa, ER94school Foundation Certification (basic understanding on how SAP works)

Sandisiwe Makhalima
Resumé of Career to Date

Company Name :
Deloitte 
Type of Industry :
Financial Services
Period of Employment :
June 2013 - date
Position :
Assistant Accountant
Duties :


Preparing purchase orders.
Preparing payment requisitions and checking supporting documents for approval by the accountant/senior manager
Processing cashbook entries in Pastel.
Book to Balance Sheet and General Ledger
Interacting with client relating to invoices for payment requests as well as obtaining source documents (bank statements or invoices) for processing.
Adhoc queries and client request resolution
Preparation of the monthly journal entries for approval by the accountant/senior manager.
Dealing with year-end audit queries external auditors
Prepare month end reconciliations
Preparation of creditor’s reconciliations.
Follow up on outstanding debtors.
Process of monthly journals e.g. Payroll, depreciation.
Process of prepayments.
Preparing monthly management reporting packs.
Foreign exchange:
Currencies- Dollar, pound and Euro
Loading payments online
Reason for Leaving :
Contract expires in May










Company Name :
Elan Rabinowitz & Associates CC
Type of Industry :
Financial Services
Period of Employment :
October 2009 – May 2013
Position :
Accounting Clerk
Duties :


Capturing data on Pastel
Processing cash books producing trial balances
Preparing Draft Annual Financial Statements including:
Balance Sheets
Income Statements
Lead schedules for all Balance Sheet and Income Statement Items.
Preparation and processing of annual returns for submission to CIPC
Submission of statutory documents
Amending Director’s details
Updating Accounting Officers and Registered Addresses.
Processing employee timesheets
Capturing invoices and receipts.
Printing statements, work in progress reports and debtors report for the employer
Reason for Leaving :
Offered more senior career opportunity










MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 4
	Candidate Name 	|	Sandisiwe Makhalima XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Joanne Bell (021) 552 8048





