
Curriculum Vita





Gerhard Wolmarans

Cell: +27 (0) 72 597 9457
Cell: +27 (0) 79 011 6600
Home: +27 12 653 0435
gfwolmarans@gmail.com

 PERSONAL INFORMATION

SURNAME
Wolmarans
NAME
Gerhardus Frederick (Gerhard)
SEX
Male
BIRTHDATE
22 December 1978
AGE
36
ID
781222 5024 083
PASSPORT
Valid until 2015
LANGUGES
Afrikaans (Read, speak, write and understand)
– Excellent
English (Read, speak, write and understand) 
– Excellent
MARITIAL STATUS
Married with 2 children
CRIMINAL RECORD
None
NATIONALITY
South African – Currently living in South Africa, have a valid passport
HEALTH
Excellent
DRIVER LICENSE
Code EB (Light Motor Vehicle)
ADRESS
Durbanville, Cape Town

I have a passion for leading and guiding Engineering and Project teams to reach goals and solutions in support of project and client requirements.  

I consider myself to be trustworthy, able to work under pressure and have strong ethical values.  I further have an easy going personality and would think that I am easy to get along with.

Throughout my career I have always been given opportunities to advance myself in a company, which I would like to attribute to my work ethics and adaptability.  The trust and believe placed in me by others has always motivated me to make a success of new challenges or positions.  

I have listed some achievements / milestones below in support of the above:

During my employment at LAS, I advanced from an Engineer in Training to handling their biggest projects in a span of 4 years.
Working at BAE, I started as an Engineering Manager for specific projects and briefly, before my resignation, was tasked with managing the complete engineering portfolio of a vehicle range
At ADP I started as a Project Engineer, and within a years’ time were tasked with being the acting Project Manager.  After another year I was officially promoted to the position of Project Manager within the company.
I successfully made the transition from the Petrochemical industry to the Mining industry when I moved from LAS to Bateman and later on from Bateman to BAE which is in the Defense-Automotive industry






 EDUCATION


SECONDARY EDUCATION
3.1  High School Zwartkop
Matriculated with University Exemption 1996

3.2  Subjects passed
Afrikaans – HG
English – HG
Mathematics – HG
Science - HG
Computer science – HG
Technical Drawings – HG
Technica Electric - HG

TERTIARY EDUCATION

3.3  University of Pretoria – South Africa
3.3.1  Period: 
1997 – 2001

3.3.2  Degree
B Eng – Mechanical Engineering
Thesis: The effect of temperature on Tribology in hip replacements
Specialization: Maintenance engineering (final year subjects)


OTHER

Registered Professional Engineer from 2007 - 2012
Registration Number 20070173
Member of SAIMECHE
2007 - 2012






WORK EXPERIENCE


PROFFESIONAL WORK EXPERRIENCE

4.1  ADP Projects
4.1.1 Period
January 2012 – Present

Company Profile
Based in Cape Town, ADP Projects (Pty) Limited is an engineering design company, specialising in providing Engineering, Procurement, Construction, Management (EPCM) and Modular Plant services to national and international marine and land-based diamond, mineral sands, coal and gold mining industries.

ADP started its operations in 1997 and boasts an impressive list of successful mining industry projects in Canada, Brazil, India and Australia. Today ADP is the leading supplier of modular processing plants to the diamond mining industry, having supplied diamond plants and diamond mining equipment to De Beers, Debswana, Trans Hex, Gem Diamonds and Petra Diamonds, to name a few.

ADP's main focus, however, is on the African continent. ADP Projects has built and supplied modular mining plants to most major diamond mines in South Africa, Namibia, Angola, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, DRC and Sierra Leone.

4.1.3  Positions Held – Project Manager
I am working as a Project Manager and started with my first project in January 2013.  The project entailed completing the detail design and installation support for Debswana’s Jwaneng Mine.

From Janaury 2015, I have been working as the Project Manager on an expansion Project for Storm Mountain Diamond’s Kao mine in Lesotho. 
 
Main Duties 
To plan, co-ordinate and manage the design, procurement, construction and commissioning of assigned projects and studies, including taking a leadership role in the preparation of proposals.
To ensure clear agreement of client objectives and that these are met or exceeded.
To achieve or better the budgeted gross margin.
To provide strong HSE leadership

Specific accountabilities

HSE Management:
Ensure that zero harm to people or the environment
Compliance with HSE procedures
Maintain HSE focus for project duration

Client Relationships:
Identify, document and communicate the client requirements
Effective management of multiple stakeholders
Maintain and build healthy client relationships throughout the project and post completion.
Proactively resolve performance, scope, cost and schedule issues with the Client as they arise.

Commercial Management:
Effective management and achievement of project financial objectives.

Scope Management:
Clear definition of scope
Compliance with requirements of the contract
Effective change control process application
Manage and monitor project performance on an ongoing basis to identify issues and opportunities early and take pre-emptive action.
Effectively manages project interfaces with partners and shareholders

Time Management:
Manage the planning of all scope elements of the project.  
Develop resource & financial requirements from the project plan.
Manage the design, procurement and construction activities to meet the project schedule
Project Manager ownership of the project schedule
Routine monitoring of the key reports and development of corrective action plans.
Timely and effective documentation turnover and project close-out.

Cost Control:
Plan and prepare accurate project estimates.
Establish cost report for control of projects.
Monitoring and control of all cost aspects of the  project to forecast costs, obtain approvals, identify  trends and take action to avoid cost overruns and take advantage of opportunities

Quality Management:
Define the project quality requirements.
Ensure the right systems are in place and that these are applied on the project.
Compliance with ADP policies and procedures.
Implement lessons learned from previous projects

Team Management:
Provide clear and focused leadership for the project team to create a vision for project success and a strategy to fit that vision.
Define roles and responsibilities
Focus team on achievement of milestones and other key project objectives.
Listen to the team, discuss the issues, resolve problems and direct activities to remove roadblocks and achieve objectives.
Provide mentoring and participate in staff performance evaluations.

Communications Management
Effective communications with the project team.
Accurate, timely & effective progress reporting to the Client and internally to ADP management.

Risk Management:
Identify project risks and opportunities. 
Monitor closure of all identified risks and opportunities.
Maintain the risk management focus throughout the project duration.

Design Management:
Set clear objectives for the design team.
Ensures design team aware of, and complying with, client’s Basis of Design and applicable regulations and codes.
Monitor design activities, interdisciplinary data flow and communications.

Procurement/Subcontracts Management:
Set clear objectives for the procurement and subcontracts team.
Assess procurement process throughout the project to ensure goods meet specification, are delivered on time and are within budget.

Construction Management:
Set clear objectives for the Construction team.  
Monitor the Construction Management function to ensure safe delivery of the project within cost and schedule objectives.

4.1.4  Positions Held – Senior Project Engineer
I was working as the Senior Project Engineer from January to December 2012 on the MTTP plant for Debswana’s Jwaneng Mine.  I managed an engineer team of approximately 10 people

Main Duties:
The role of a project engineer can often be described as that of a liaison between the project manager and the technical disciplines involved in a project. The engineer is also often the primary technical point of contact for the client. 
Ensure that the projects are completed according to project plans
Manage project team resources
Project engineer are inter-discipline coordination and overall quality control of the work 

Specific accountabilities:
HSE Management:
Compliance with HSE procedures
Maintain HSE focus for project duration
Client Relationships:
Maintain and build healthy client relationships throughout the project and post completion.
Assist the project manager to proactively resolve performance, scope, cost and schedule issues with the Client as they arise.
Commercial Management:
Assist the project manager to effectively manage the project financial objectives.
Scope Management:
Clear definition of scope
Effective change control process application
Manage and monitor project performance on an ongoing basis to identify issues and opportunities early and take pre-emptive action.
Effectively manages project interfaces with partners and shareholders
Time Management:
Manage the planning of all scope elements of the project.  
Develop resource & financial requirements from the project plan.
Manage the design, procurement and construction activities to meet the project schedule
Routine monitoring of the key reports and development of corrective action plans.
Cost Control:
Assist project manager to plan and prepare accurate project estimates.
Assist the project manager in monitoring and control of all cost aspects of the  project to forecast costs, obtain approvals, identify  trends and take action to avoid cost overruns and take advantage of opportunities
Quality Management:
Define the project quality requirements.
Ensure the right systems are in place and that these are applied on the project.
Compliance with ADP policies and procedures.
Implement lessons learned from previous projects
Communications Management
Effective communications with the project team.
Assist the project manager to accurately, timeously & effective progress reporting to the Client and internally to ADP management.
Risk Management:
Identify project risks and opportunities. 
Monitor closure of all identified risks and opportunities.
Maintain the risk management focus throughout the project duration.
Design Management:
Assist the project manager and or the project engineering manager to set clear objectives for the design team.
Monitor design activities, interdisciplinary data flow and communications.
Procurement/Subcontracts Management:
Set clear objectives for the procurement and subcontracts team.
Assist the project manager to assess procurement process throughout the project to ensure goods meet specification, are delivered on time and are within budget.
Construction Management:
Assist the project manager to set clear objectives for the Construction team.  
Monitor the Construction Management function to ensure safe delivery of the project within cost and schedule objectives.

4.2  BAE - Land Systems OMC
4.2.1  Period:  
April 2009 – December2011

4.2.2  Company Profile: 
Land Systems OMC is South Africa's primary military vehicle facility and is a recognised leader in the field of landmine and IED (improvised explosive device) protected vehicles.  The company has a proven track record of dedication to its customers and to its chosen field of expertise.

Many Land Systems OMC products proudly carry the label "combat proven", having seen action in some of the harshest operational scenarios in the world.  Although some may originally have been developed for specific users, all products can readily be adapted to suit the requirements of other customers. Land Systems OMC's products are popular with most forces because of the high level of ballistic and mine protection offered, as well as ease of maintenance and maneuverability.

The company also provides technical support, spares, training and other services to its local and international customers, directly or through partnerships and teaming agreements with approved dealers and distributors.

4.2.3  Position held: 
Engineer Manager

As the engineering manager my main responsibility was to manage all engineering aspects for developing / modifying a vehicle for a specific defense contract as well as to support it during its service life.

This typically involved managing an engineering team in support of reaching project and product goals which included:
Design
Testing
Fabrication
Support
ITAR

A vehicle would be developed by an Engineering Team that mainly consisted of design, mechanical and electrical engineers as well as a CAD team.  Once the vehicle design was generated it was passed from engineering to the configuration management department in the form of an approved data pack.  Procurement was then carried out according to this datapack.  

Once manufacturing commenced engineering was required to technically assist during fabrication and integration of the vehicles.  

Lifecycle support included resolving customer complaints through BAE’s CUSAI process.  This included failure investigation and engineering solutions.

4.2.4  Responsibilities:
Technical Management of products through their entire life cycles; Cradle-to-Grave
Baseline management
Interpretation and engineering of client requirements
Design review planning and conducting
Contract Baseline planning and execution
Risk abetment planning and implementation
Product safety management planning
Product strategy planning
Resource planning
Resolving customer complaints
Status reporting
Tender support
Management of poor suppliers with the aim of improving quality and delivery times

4.2.5  Last major projects work on:
RG31 MK6B UAE Tender
RG31 Mk6B Development
RG31 Mk5EM Development and production
21 Vehicles for the American SOCOM
RG31 Mk5E Development and production
20 Vehicles for the Spanish MOD
RG32 M Vehicle development
60 Vehicles for the Swedish Special Forces
Demonstrator Vehicles engineered and modified for potential contracts
RG31 Mk5 TAK4 configuration
RG31 Mk5 E KSA configuration
RG31 Mk6 B UAE configuration
RG31 Mk6 E Ambulance configuration

4.2.6  Reason for leaving:  
Family commitments
Job security

4.3  BATEMAN – Special Projects
4.3.1  Company Profile: 
Bateman Special Projects, a Bateman NV subsidiary is a global engineering, contracting and project management company specializing in “smaller or special” projects that are not always pursued by the bigger Bateman subsidiaries

The Company designs, procures and project-manages the building of plants or part of.
 
It operates from offices in South Africa, Australia, Russia, Canada and elsewhere and has the world’s leading mining houses as its clients.

4.3.2  Period:  
July 2007 – April 2009

4.3.3  Position held: 
Mechanical Engineer

4.3.4  Responsibilities:
Compiling of Mechanical equipment lists
Compiling of Electrical Motor lists
Writing of technical equipment specification
Preparing the enquiries (Technical side)
Technical adjudication of tenders
Design and drawing reviews
Maintainability and ergonomic input 

4.3.5  Courses completed:  
Introduction to steam principles and design - 3 day course

4.3.6  Last major projects work on:
Andalusite SA: Plant commissioning
Ambatovy: Engineering and Procurement
Rossign: Study for a Radiometric Ore Sorting plant

4.3.7  Reason for resignation:  
Due to economical recession BATEMAN started with retrenchments, accordingly I decided to change careers due to job security.

4.4  BATEMAN – Metals and Minerals
4.4.1  Background: 
Bateman Minerals & Metals, a Bateman NV subsidiary is a global engineering, contracting and project management company specializing in natural resources, with projects executed in over 50 countries. 

The Company designs, procures and project-manages the building of plants, often adjacent to mines, which process the bulk material excavated from the ground, to yield pure metals, minerals or other marketable products. 

It operates from offices in South Africa, Australia, Russia, Canada and elsewhere and has the world’s leading mining houses as its clients.

4.4.2  Period:  
April 2006 – June 2007

4.4.3  General:  
I started at Bateman Metals and Minerals after resigning at LAS.  I was appointed as a Mechanical Engineer and mainly worked on studies (cost estimates) that were done for various clients.

I formed part of the Mechanical Engineering discipline on the studies and was usually managed by the Lead Mechanical engineer.

4.4.4  Position held: 
Mechanical Engineer

4.4.5  Responsibilities:
Compiling of Mechanical equipment list
Compiling of Electrical Motor lists
Writing of technical equipment specification
Preparing the enquiries (Technical side)
Technical adjudication of tenders
Drawing review
Maintainability and ergonomic input 

4.4.6  Courses completed:  
Project Management Intermediate Course (PMI) - 5 day course,
Valued Improving Practices’ - 2 day course
Slurry Pipe Line - 4 day course

4.4.7  Last major projects work on:

Orapa 3: LSTK offer
Orapa 3: Pre-feasibility study

The Orapa studies were requested by Debswana to replace one of their ageing Diamond plants.  The offer was for a complete new plant (“Green Fields” project) capable of handling 1400tph (Run Of Mine – ROM).

4.4.8  Reason for resignation:  
I found the work to be to repetitive and focused on one aspect of the project

4.5  Liquid Automation Systems (PTY) Ltd.
4.5.1  Background: 
LAS is a company that supplies, install and commission various products and systems in the Petro-chemical industry.  LAS further do complete turnkey projects spanning the whole project life cycle.

4.5.2  Period:  
January 2001 – March 2006

4.5.3  General:  
I started at LAS after completing mechanical Engineering degree at The University of Pretoria. 

For the first 9 months I was utilized as a Project technician and a site manager (KBM Postmansburg and Jwaneng diamond mine Botswana).  This served both as training on products and services that LAS offers, as well as an introduction to Project management in LAS. 

After completing the project in Botswana I was chosen to receive training in Italy in the manufacturing of Loading arms.  The purpose of this was to enable LAS to manufacture Loading arms in RSA.  My duties include assisting with quotations as well as all aspects off manufacturing (design, quality control, project management etc.) of Loading arms

I have further received training in The Netherlands on Tank gauging equipment certifying me to install commission and repair ENRAF’s equipment.  I have received most of the tank gauging projects within LAS after completion of the ENRAF course.

Even though being a Mechanical engineer I have obtained a tremendous amount of knowledge on  instrumentation that LAS supplies.  My knowledge includes commissioning, faultfinding and system design.  

Below is a list of products that I am familiar with:

Contrec Bay controller equipment as well as additive equipment.
Enraf and Optilevel tank gauging equipment
Hectronic Fore-court equipment
Additive blocks and systems
Loading arms and related instrumentation
Various valves and meters
Greenline folding stairs

I have furthered attended the following course that was arranged by LAS:
Assertiveness training
Training the Trainee
ENRAF Tank gauging training
OMC loading arm  manufacturing training

4.5.4.  Position held: 
Project Manager / Engineer / Executioner

4.5.5  Responsibilities: 
Management of projects through the various project life cycles.
Project implementation
Project installation, commissioning and handover
Assisting sales and marketing personnel with quotations and system designs
Technical evaluation of quotations and bids.

4.5.6  Last major projects work on:
BP Walvis Bay: Tank gauging installation and commissioning.
TOTAL Walvis Bay: Tank gauging installation and commissioning.
TOTAL Bethlehem: Depot upgrade.
SASOL Butanol plant: Manufacture and installation of loading arms.
SASOL Merisol plant: Supply of equipment for a new rail gantry.
PETROMOC Mozambique: Manufacture, supply and installation of a road loading gantry.
BP Maputo: Upgrade of road gantry.
TOR Ghana: Design, Installation and commissioning of a Tank gauging system.

I have managed approximately 30 projects with a combined value of over 35 million Rand during the last 3 years employed at LAS.  These projects ranged from supply of equipment only to turnkey projects.

4.5.7  Reason for resignation:  
I decided to leave LAS to improve my Mechanical Engineering capabilities as I found LAS to be specializing in the instrumentation field only.



STUDENT WORK EXPERIENCE


4.6   Kossenie (PTY) Ltd.
4.6.1  Background: 
Kossenie is a company that consists of 5 farms specializing in the export of table grapes.

4.6.2  Period: 
1996 - 1999

4.6.3  Responsibilities: 
Management of staff and packing lines during harvesting season.

4.7   KOMS (PTY) Ltd.
4.7.1  Background: 
KOMS is a consultant engineering company that manages projects in the agricultural sector.

4.7.2  Period: 
1999

4.7.3  Responsibilities: 
Design and cost analysis of various products intended to be used in the agricultural sector. 


REFFERANCES

List of references available on request.


5.	SPORT, INTERESTS and PERSONAL ACHIEVEMENTS

SPORT
Mountain biking
Aikido

SOSIAL INTEREST
Martial Arts
Hiking & Nature
Science: Space–time continuum
Mechanical design 

ACHIEVEMENTS
South African all styles Karate tournament 1999 – 3rd
Gauteng North all styles karate tournament 1999– 1st
Brown belt – Shorin Ryu Karate
Technical drawing – Achiever of the year (1996)









Gerhard Wolmarans                       September 2015	Page  PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2




