
CONFIDENTIALITY CLAUSE:  All Information concerning the Candidate is furnished to the Client in strict confidence. The Client may not divulge this information to any third party, nor contact the Candidate’s present employer, nor take references without prior consultation with MPC Recruitment
Position Applied For:
Project Manager – Engineering 
Candidate Name:
Moshito Marebane
MPC Consultant Name:
Gizyle Bezuidenhout
MPC Consultant’s Contact Details:
(021) 552 8048
Date Referred:
18 February 2016

Personal Details
Surname :
Marebane
First Names :
Moshito
Nationality :
South African
Language Proficiencies :
North Sotho, English, Sotho, Afrikaans and Zulu
EE/AA Status :
Black Male 
Availability :
One Week (after relocation)
Location :
Johannesburg  
Previous Salary :
R576 000 CTC pa
Expected Salary :
R700 000 CTC pa

Career Summary
Company
Position
Duration
Famous Brands
Project Service Manager
Oct 2014 – Jul 2015
Revlon
Project Manager
Sep 2013 – Sep 2014
Achievements
Award for Young Project Officer in 2007
He was part of Plant start-up team at Procter & Gamble in 2008, responsible for developing and implementing Warehouse Systems(Material Quality System, Material Handling System, Material Storage System and Warehouse Maintenance System) Achieved 80% for Material Quality System and 83% for Material Handling System in their first Audit.
Qualified two local supplier for packaging materials  



































Academic History
Qualification :
Degree – Project Management
Date Completed :
2015
Institution :
Tshwane University of Technology 

Qualification :
Certificate - Mechanical Engineering
Date Completed :
2007
Institution :
University of Pretoria

Qualification :
Diploma - Mechanical Engineering
Date Completed :
2004
Institution :
University of Johannesburg

Qualification :
Matric
Date Completed :
1998
Institution :
S.J Van Der Merwe THS
 
Computer Skills
Programs/Systems :
MS Project
SAP
MS Office 
AutoCAD
AS 400









Moshito Marebane
Resumé of Career to Date
Company Name :
Famous Brands
Type of Industry :
FMCG
Period of Employment :
October 2014 – July 2015
Position :
Project Service Manager
Duties :


Anchor for all OPS Projects across all brands/departments
Utilising knowledge across brands to acquire relevant information for projects 
Operating successfully across all formats, brands and disciplines 
Building relationships with key strategic suppliers, brand custodians and Franchise Network to enhance knowledge and expertise 
Packaging projects in-line with high standards set in through detailed analysis of every project, providing clear outcomes and enhancing the experience for all services departments, marketing, and central office 
Facilitating projects and outcomes 
Assisting development and specifications departments in sourcing and trialling new equipment across all Brands 
Responsible for ensuring the efficient completion of the operations projects 
Communicate all completed and signed off projects newsletters 
Designing and managing structured tracking mechanisms for all projects. 
Providing structured monthly reports on time 
Updating and managing info for project matrix 
Assisting with the development of new concepts where applicable 
Representing GOS(Group Ops Services) internally & externally 
Representing GOS in the regions, brands and franchise network 
Serving as the conduit between all relevant departments, key strategic suppliers and partners regarding ops projects 
Sharing best practice across regions, brands and franchise network
Reason for Leaving :
Retrenched








Company Name :
Revlon
Type of Industry :
Cosmetics / Skin Care 
Period of Employment :
September 2013 – September 2014
Position :
Project Manager
Duties :


Manage/projects implementation of all NPD (New Product Development) and EPD (Existing Product Development) from stage of project brief to GFS (Good for Sale) across all functions in the business including global, inter-company, co-packer products and global sourced from South Africa.
Initiate and coordinate sourcing and source changes for products from inter-company. This will include conducting sourcing study, identifying and aligning SKU options with local business, obtaining TP (Third Party) and tracking progress until GFS for local and export projects.
Serve as liaison between supply department and marketing/sales and ensure effectively communication with all people involved on the project realization process both local and global
Develop and implement new procedures to ensure qualitative excellent execution with the implementation of projects.
Create and issue cost templates for new products and validate final COGS (Cost Of Goods) issued for local and inter-company P&L(Profit & Loses)
Generate Timelines for relevant projects and liaise with relevant Departments on timings and tasks and track these to ensure achievement of business targets.
Work with planning Department to collate inventory balance up exercises and management to ensure minimal write-offs during EPD implementations.
ERP master data creation, support/liaison with planning; check and validate with R&D documents are transcribed correctly that ERP BOMs input are creation and maintain with full compliance.
Manage/coordinate projects implementation of all new equipment and lines(Capex projects)
Implementation and support of OEE system 
Reason for Leaving :
Restructuring












Company Name :
Tetrapak
Type of Industry :
Food Processing and Packaging Solutions
Period of Employment :
January 2012 – December 2012
Position :
Project Engineer
Duties :


Full design of customer Packaging filling line and plant layouts.
Management of internal project resources
Provide filling solutions according to customer requirements by offering technical solutions 
Generate timely, accurate and detailed project schedules 
Asses and manage project risks
Manage the successful implementation of allocated major projects in terms of scope, quality, time and cost.
Compile and manage project budgets
Management of sub-contractors
Update all customer plant layouts (plans and documents)
Negotiate with suppliers and sub-contractors.
Full Project support liaison	
Management of project documentation
Evaluate course requirements on project level and assist with resource development planning
Take responsibility for ordering and shipping of all the equipment to the customer sides.
Compile high level reports to management
Reason for Leaving :
End of Contract 















Company Name :
Procter & Gamble
Type of Industry :
FMCG
Period of Employment :
July 2008 – December 2011
Position :
Technical Packaging SPOC
Duties :


Developing, Implementing and Maintaining of MQS (Materials Quality System) and MHS (Material Handling System).
Lead qualification of all local material suppliers according to project process.
Support Purchasing in the development of material sourcing strategy.
Responsible for packaging cost saving projects and Project budget control.
Ensure that all packaging developments have the necessary specifications and are compliant to country regulatory standards and do not pose external risk to the company. 
Ensuring that all Packaging suppliers follow all company required quality standards.
Lead all new initiative projects at the lines.
Lead all warehouse Capex projects.
Support all local packaging suppliers with QI (Quality Incidents) eliminations as needed.
Perform supplier audit and help them improve quality systems.
Elimination of losses caused by packaging.  
Responsible for innovative engineering and maintenance of packaging area
Responsible for Safety and QA standards in the Packaging area on daily business.
Manage the Packaging maintenance master schedule 	
Defining and establishing the packaging standards.
Lead the team of packaging operators  
Run regular training with the packaging operators with new initiatives.
Developing SOP’s as needed to improve the performance of the packaging organization.
Ownership of all packaging projects.	
Autonomous elimination of losses in the owned work processes.
Responsible for process development and manufacturing excellence in packaging.
SAP reporting for packaging & equipment relocations.
Flexible participation in Accounts Audits.
Reason for Leaving :
Better growth opportunity 






Company Name :
Department of Defence (Defence Material Division)
Type of Industry :
Government 
Period of Employment :
January 2005 – June 2008
Position :
Project Officer 
Duties :


Managing sub-contractors & applying the principles of project management for all capital projects.
Compiling & presenting project baseline, phrases and close-out   reports. 
Financial Planning, Control & Administration with guidance of Public Service Act and Regulations, Public Finance Management Act and Treasury Regulations.
Supporting the project manager in his daily management activities including Project Scheduling and Planning.
Planning, execution and control administrative, procurement and purchasing activities on projects, materials, equipment and services
Following up on project tasks and performance of contractors.
Developing, implementing & maintaining office administrative systems.
Arranging and chairing IPT (integrated project team) meetings
Reason for Leaving :
Better Prospects 










MPC Recruitment Group | [Insert Consultant’s Name Here]
[Insert Position Applied For Here] | [Insert Applicant’s Name Here]
 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2


 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 8
	Candidate Name 	|	Moshito Marebane XE 
	MPC Consultant Name 	| 	Gizyle Bezuidenhout (021) 552 8048





