
CV for SINGATA ARMSTRONG LIMBA

Date of Birth: 25 August 1972
 Kraaifontein
HIGH SCHOOL EDUCATION

Last School Attended:	Mandela High School (Crossroads Philippi)
Level Passed:	Matric (Grade 12)
Year:	1995

TERTIARY EDUCATION
Name of Institution:                                     Bytes College  
Year:	September 2014
Course Registered:	MS Projects Advanced 2010
Level Passed:					Certificate

Name of Institution:                                     University of Stellenbosch Business School  
Year:	2010
Course Registered:	Project Management for Engineers
Level Passed:	Certificate 

Name of institution:	Peninsula Technikon
Year:	2004
Course Registered:	Mechanical Engineering ND (Part - time)
Level Passed:	Mechanical Engineering National Diploma

Name of Institution:                                     Peninsula Technikon    
Year:	2004
Course Registered:	Project Management
Level Passed:	Certificate with MS Project 2002

Name of Institution:                                     CAD PLAN    
Year:	15/05/2006 to 19/05/2006
Course Registered:	Autodesk Inventor Professional 11
Level Passed:	Certificate 

Drivers Licence:	Code 8

Character
I am a natural leader and I lead by example, good motivator and team builder.
I am honest, hardworking and willing to learn from others. 
I am business minded, entrepreneurship minded and customer orientated person. 
Sound decision making and analytical thinker.

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY 
Transnet Port Terminals

Period: - from 11 May 2015 to Date
Position:- Projects Controller
Duties:-         
To monitor and control projects across the Western Region Terminals.
Ensure that the capturing of actual time, actual events or Lean Six Sigma/DMADV/ DMAIC gates stages.
Responsible for financial planning and a control surrounding projects or programmes.
Administer, monitor and report on the financial status/progress/forecast of the project/programme/project portfolio.
Ensure that the costs of projects are clear and the financial information is available in order to manage projects and that the financial agreements with customers and suppliers are met, so that the people and means that made available, can be used in a cost effective manner.
Responsible for the review of the internal controls.
Control and have all time full knowledge of all financial movements and ensuring they are correctly and accurately reported.
Produce all financial project reporting as requested.
Ad Hoc financial duties. Calculating costs of change request, calculating the costs and savings on the Lean Six Sigma projects.
Coordinate project steering committee meetings on a system and ensure that tracking is done.
Assist the Project manager in other project related activities such as resources management, scheduling of meetings and presentations.
Streamline the collection of actual cost processes between front and back office.
Weekly and monthly cost reporting to ensure operational control as to project actual costs versus budget and various reporting.
Measuring resources capacity allocation based on resources time planned and booked to the Lean Six Sigma projects.
Collecting, the data necessary for the input of the value chain savings calculations. Improve fund accounting review and implement processes for monthly and quarterly financial review.
Ensure process, standards and guidelines are available and adhered to by the Project management Community.
Ensure that all risks and issues are captured on a system and tracking is done.


Reason for changing: Contract work and looking for permanent work


Engen Petroleum Limited

Period: - from 14 August 2007 to 02 October 2014 
Position:- Engineering Technician
Duties:-   
A cost-effective design that meets business & regulatory requirements. Supervised conceptual and final designs – complexity dependent on experience  Capital and operational cost estimates (for a design and its implementation)  Supervised upgrades and debottlenecking of plants – complexity dependent on experience. Improvement in HSE. Designs maintained in line with HSE, legal, cost and efficiency objectives.  Remain up to date with current and future engineering practices, technologies & legislation. Project completed on time, within budget and operating as designed – project complexity dependent on experience. Conceptual engineering design. Supervised tender preparation and adjudication – complexity dependent on experience.
 Compliance with all current legislation and Engen standards (compliance targeted at minimum Legal or Engen minimum standards, whichever is higher) Onsite Incident Response Management Optimized returns on company assets.To manage projects from feasibility stage to completion stage
Manage the installations of underground, above ground diesel, gas and petrol tanks, Pipe-work, Kerbside pumps and pump-sets.
To manage Bulk Lubrication Oils installation projects.
Liaison with Engineering Consultants, Environmental Consultants, HSEQ Consultants and Sub-Contractors day to day work.
	Managing small, medium to large scale project in depot upgrades.
Inspections for marine and storage depots machinery, bulk tanks and mechanical, civil structures and drainage systems
	Manage preventative maintenance programs.

Reason for changing: To develop more experience in Engineering Projects Combined with Business Management Projects.






South African Breweries (SAB Newlands)

Period: - from 01 November 2006 to 30 JULY 2007
Position:- Brewing Technician
Duties:-            
Products quality analysis & Process Improvement
Sampling and checking all the specification are met before signing off to Packaging department.
Operation of the plant via the latest SCADA systems (Inbatch & Intouch)
Carrying out all work according to ISO 9001 procedures and instructions.

Reason for leaving: To develop more experience in Sales & Marketing & Engineering Projects.

Hyflo Southern Africa (Hydraulics, Pneumatics & Automation)
Period: - from 03 April 2006 to 25 October 2006
Position:- Project Engineer
Duties:-            
Process Improvement
& Selection of materials and equipment.
Drawings- detailing, plant layout, 3D in Autodesk Inventor for hydraulics packs.
Assisting workshop and sales staff with trouble shooting of hydraulics systems.
Upgrade pump-stations and valve stations 
Improving and upgrading existing internal structures and designs. 
Preparation of technical specifications for subcontractors. 
Liaison with sub-contractors regarding technical issues.
Actively search out potential project customers.
Drawing up draft copies of maintenance, operating and quotation manuals. 
Training of technical staff.
Carrying out all work according to ISO 9001 procedures and instructions.
Project Management from initial orders through invoicing
Design hydraulics Circuits, Manifold blocks and Systems

Reason for leaving: Contract finish.

Much Asphalt company
Period: 21/11/05 to 31/03/06
Position:   Maintenance Foreman Assistant
Duties: planning preventative maintenance, plant monitoring to ensure the plant is running smooth all the time and also doing repairs. To plan maintenance projects.
Spares to be available at all times.
Reason for leaving: Contract finish

S.A. Five Engineering (Petrochemical, Oil & Gas, construction and pipe system).

Period: 31/08/05 to 18/11/05.
Position: Quality & Technical clerk.
Duties: - To monitor and measure the production input and quality of work from welders,       to capture all the relevant data to meet required quality and specifications.
Reason for leaving: Contract finish

Pioneer Mechanical Contractors (Petrochemical, construction and pipe system).

Period: 08 February to 15 June 2005.
Position: Yard Co-ordinate 
Duties: - Yard layout; material control; finished goods registration and dispatching to site
for installation; Liaison with clients for final inspection; supervising the rigging staff of five.
Reason for leaving:  Contract finish.

Bennetts Engineering (Food processing machinery and general engineering)

Period: 15 January 2001 to 28 January 2005.
Position: Junior Project Engineer
Duties:-            
Stores Management & Process Improvement
Quotation Preparation & Material Procurement
Drawings- detailing, plant layout, 3D for Chemical Treatment Plant 
Operating Manuals Preparation
Project Management & Job Costing
Site coordinating &  Liaison with sub-contractors
Production Control & Planning
Reason for leaving: retrenched

Coimbra Bakery Shop (part-time 23/11/98 to 20/01/01)
Duties:-
Shelve packing, counter hand, Customer service & House keeping
Interlink with the bakery for products needed in the shop

PPC Cement (December 1996 to January 1998)

Position: General Relief Attendant
Duties: - Loading the trucks
Additional responsibilities: Monitor all the departmental firefighting equipment on
                                               Monthly basis and report to the Risk Control Manager                            
Shunter Assistance
Member of Advanced Fire Team
Reason for leaving:  To further my studies
Skills Developed
Languages: English (Fluent), Afrikaans (Fair), Xhosa (Fluent).
Computer Skills: (MS Word, MS Excel, SAP, MS Power Point, MS Project, AutoCad 2007, Easy Development, Impact Encore (Cost & Accounting System), Nutrix
Project Management Skills.
HSEQ: Safety; Healthy & Environmental awareness, Major Fire Fighting, Hot work & Confine space permit issuer, Authorized Gas Tester, Depot Facilities Training, Legal Liability For Supervisors OSH Act, 85 of 1993, Fuels Training, 
Communication: Negotiation Skills, Presentation Skills in all levels & Interpersonal skills, Mentoring students.
Design Skills (Selection of materials, Site Measurement, AutoCAD 2000 - 2007 versions)

