Job Title                                Customer Order and Export Coordinator
 
Key Duties:
Processing of all orders on ERP system and send order acknowledgment to customer,
Check availability of stock in MFG Pro and liaise with operations/production staff where issues arise.
Administrate and file customer complaints.
Ensures customer orders comply with any defined local authority matrices
Prepare picking lists for dispatches and liaise with warehouse staff
Prepare daily dispatch request for the warehouse / logistics team.
Create and verify invoices, debit/credit notes.
Answers customer inquiries/communications as required.
Contribute as a checker function to ensure quotations and customers contracts comply with any locally defined authority matrices
Serve as communication link between external customers and internal stakeholders
Ensure export compliance by arranging all documentation and logistics for export orders as well as maintaining strict records for audit purposes, as well as maintaining an excel record for receipt of payment.
Archiving of all COS related documentation in a proper and timely manner
Run process and arrange resupply stock to all remote depots in South Africa as well as over-border
Process NPR purchase orders for all logistics requirement on SRM for approval as per authority matrix.
Write internal and external correspondence according to instructions of the COS Manager and Sales Manager
Contributes to the development and maintenance of standards, policies and procedures regarding customer service.
Regularly provides feedback on the soundness and effectiveness of the customer service department’s policies and procedures.
Outstanding Order Report
Standard reporting on a daily/weekly/monthly basis on COS activities in line with defined KPIs
Adheres to all corporate policies, guidelines and statutory requirements and recommends to (senior) management adoption and/or changes to policies and guidelines to reflect circumstances within the customer service area.
Provide vacation cover for other colleagues in other businesses and countries within South Africa.
